# Session Notes from Participant 4, Wednesday, Feb. 17, 2021, 9 - 10 a.m.
Health Record (Medications, Allergies, and Immunizations), February 2021

Start recording.

I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen the audio as we talk today?" Yes. 

## Warm-up Questions - 10 minutes

To begin, we would like to get to know you a little better and understand your experiences with medications, allergies (or intolerances, like lactose intolerance), and any immunizations that you received in the past few years (such as flu shots or COVID).
- How much of your medical care do you receive from the VA?  Depending on how you mean it, I get care through the VA community care. My local doctor treats me then they pay it so about 90%. Yes community partners.  
- How do you keep track of your medications, immunizations, and allergies? I have a file on the computer that I update with meds, problems with meds I take, a calendar I keep appointments and some of them are a year out when I go in for my annual cancer check up and they schedule them then and I put them on the calendar.
  - What do you like about your current process? I like seeing my local doctor because the va is 100 miles away and CBOC is 50 and the local doctor is only 3 miles. 
  - What is frustrating about keeping track of your medications? I have some, I am totally blind and I have some motor skill problems. It is a bit of my issue with filling the boxes so I have someone that does that for me. That is the main problem I have. 
- How do you keep your VA providers up-to-date on your medications? For instance, maybe you stopped taking a medication or you were prescribed a new medication from a non-VA provider, how did you let your VA providers know? I have a file that I print out and take when I go see a new doctor or an annual appointment. 
- Do you add more to the list: the list stays current, if I stop taking it is leaves and if I add one it is added so I don’t have to remember it. 
  - If you take any supplements, vitamins, or over-the-counter medications, do you share that with your VA providers? They are on my list to. 
    - If yes, how did those experiences of letting your VA provider go? What methods did you utilize to communicate the change?
- Have you ever let your VA provider know about any changes to your allergy history?
  - If yes, how did those experiences of letting your VA provider go? What methods did you utilize to communicate the change? When I hand them the list they are happy when I tell them they can keep it they are happier. I have had bad side effects from medications and they appreciate having that to. 
  - Medication reaction in history: yes. 
  - Same process: right. 
- Have you ever received an immunization at a non-VA facility, maybe a non-VA provider's office or a pharmacy? Not recently but I have in the past. 
  - If yes, how did you let your VA provider know about those immunizations? How did those experiences of letting your VA provider go? What methods did you utilize to communicate the change? I normally don’t worry about the steroid shot but I do get the flu shot and I tell them then. 
  - Va provider: most of them are form the VA, vaccines treatments in the last 20 years are form the VA. 
  - COVID vaccine: no I have not. 
- Do you utilize MyHealtheVet? Yes. 
  - If yes,
    - Have you ever checked your medication list on there? I do all of my prescription reordering there and I look on my list and I wasn’t used to it. It had a different name so I looked it up. 
    - Were those list easy or hard to understand? If hard, what did you find challenging? Again being blind I have some issues with myhealthevet. When there are major changes and I have to find a new way to get to the section but once there I don’t have a problem. The only problem I have is secure messaging is awkward but I manage it. I do use it with my va providers. 
    - Experience: I don’t know the issue with interacting with screen reading. I cannot send a message to someone with more than a few words so I go to my file and write it then copy it. If I try to write it in there it kicks me out. If I try to find the new message it is 50 keystrokes. I tried sending in problem messages and it doesn’t go through, I called and made complaints but that’s gone nowhere. Other than that the website is great. 
- How can we make it easier for you to communicate to your VA providers? As far as working with providers, I don’t ave any problem. They have access to everything online. If I need to provide updates I hand them the list. I don’t think we have problems in that way. I have issues with refilling and I cannot get my doctor va or non va to write refills when the annual check up is done. My checkup isn’t until May but they expired in December so I have to go in each time. That seems universal inside and outside of the VA. 

## Mural Activity - 30 minutes

Next, we will complete an activity that helps prioritize and group information that we could display online in medication, allergy, and immunization sections. Let me share my screen with you, so we can start this activity: Mural link.

### Immunizations Section - 10 minutes

Vaccine: I rarely get that infomration off the website but it is important. 

Date received: slightly important

Reactions: for me not very but I am glad they are there for others to see so for that it is important.  Slightly important. 

Dose number: when I get my covid it wont be from the va so it is slightly important

By mouth: I think that would be moderately important as the resource to know what is available.

Where it was received, area: important. 

Product name: moderate. 

Lot number: not important unless there is a recall out. 

Professional: slightly important

Edit reactions:  important

Add immunization: I usually do that face to face but I would say moderately important

Add comments: slightly important

Schedule: Moderate, I normally would do that on the phone or in person.

CDC: slightly important

Recommended: slightly important 

Sound good: I think we are on the same page, if it is how important it is for me on the website. 

Is there anything that should be added to immunizations that we didn't already review? 

### Medications Section - 10 minutes

Medication: that is on my current list and I definitely would rate that highly important

Prescribed by: moderate

Description: being blind that is pretty low, shapes are nice but when new ventured the shapes change. 

Quantity: important

Duration: that’s important. 

Status: that’s like wheat I mentioned earlier about things being expired. That is important, I check it often enough I don’t get surprised often. I 
have one that I have not taken 3 years and talked to them about taking it off but it floats around.

Taking as prescribed: that might help get rid of that one prescription. Moderate

Non va vs va prescription:  the only one for me are va filled on so that is not significant to me. If I kept non va prescriptions it would probably 
become important so I would reorder them from the right place. It would be important. 

Add medications: I believe that is already there but I do not take advantage of it. Moderate. I only say that because my outside provider write it so it goes to the va anyway. 

Type: actually I would find that important because I have different eye drops and I always have issues trying to figure out which one to order.

Directions: on the website I would say slightly important because I have the bottle and I use script talk if I need those. It is fast than going online

Rx number: since all I need to do is click the item that doesn’t tell me much information but if I call it in they need it so it should be important

Refills: very important

Date last refilled: important

Expires: the expiration of the medication for me would be slight. The expiration of the prescription would be important. I rotate by bottles carefully 
so I don’t keep them past expiration

Date ordered: moderate

Pharmacy name: moderate

Learn more: I think it is already three I have used it a few time. I would rate it moderate

Side effects: I would rate that as moderate but I normally go to a outside website to find that

Warning: important.

Add comments: that would be important to I think.  

Is there anything that should be added to medications that we didn't already review?  I don’t think so, you had a good list. 

### Allergies Section - 10 minutes

Allergen: that would be very important. 

Verified: maybe back up, is it records of me and my personal experiences. Moderate. 

Is there documenting: moderate. 

Reactions: very important. Or whatever the second level is, so important

Add comments: important

Onset date: moderate.

Severity: important

Doctor that reported it/veteran reported: moderate

Edit reactions: important

Add in allergy: important

Learn more: moderate

Diagnosed: I know if I have the problem. That’s probably important. 

anything that should be added to allergies that we didn't already review?  Well I have no allergies to medications but I have serious side effects to a lot of them. All of them should be under here where if you break out in hives. I lose hearing when I take them so they should all be under here. 

Still sounds good: yes. 

## Wrap-up Questions - 5 minutes
- Pretend you developed a new medication allergy, such as a rash when you take penicillin. Would you add that medication allergy on the medication section and/or the allergy section? I guess it depends on how the VA staff looks at the records. It is important for it to be there so they don’t prescribe it or a slightly different one. I have a list of the medication that is caused issues and I give that to the provider. I don’t use the website for general purposes I use it for certain things. It should be listed in allergies. They wont always take the time to look at all three sections. 
- Would you want to see these sections in a questionnaire before every VA appointment? I would say major appointments like annual check ups not when going in for a cold. It would be nice to put it in writing before you get there so someone looks at it and you don’t walk out and forget to say something.
- Major appointments: surgical appointments, new type of appointment. Basically anything other than normal everyday appointments. 
- If we could only build one of these topics into a pre-visit questionnaire, which one would you prefer?  Allergies because to me they are the most significant things that happen that are not always remembered at the appointment. I have medication I have not had in 10 years and don’t want again because of the side effects. If it is in the system it is on him not me before he prescribes me something new. 
- Would you pick medications, allergies, and immunizations?
  - Why?
- Do you think adding these pages to a pre-visit questionnaire will help or not help you explain changes to your medications, allergies, and immunizations to your VA provider? Yes it would be helpful. I just had my daughter call me the other day and the doctor gave a new prescription for depression and has epilepsy and the medication causes seizures. I don’t know if it is anew doctor, luckily she caught it prior to taking it but if the doctor had it up it would have saved a bit more time. 
- Is there anything about medications, allergies, and immunizations that I should know about that I didn't cover today? I don’t think so. 
- Do you have any final questions for me? No. It is much better than 3 years ago. 

## Thank-You and Closing - 5 minutes

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful 
to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans.

Thanks! Lastly, do you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future user research session? If Yes: Thank you! I'll have our team send you an email with a little blurb that you can pass along.

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
