# Session Notes from Participant 7, Thursday, Feb. 18, 2021, 9 - 10 a.m.
Health Record (Medications, Allergies, and Immunizations), February 2021

Start recording.

I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen the audio as we talk today?" Yes. That’s fine. 

## Warm-up Questions - 10 minutes

To begin, we would like to get to know you a little better and understand your experiences with medications, allergies (or intolerances, like lactose intolerance), and any immunizations that you received in the past few years (such as flu shots or COVID).
- How much of your medical care do you receive from the VA?  Um, I am a healthy person so I don’t get much care from anybody. I have Medicare and private insurance and the va. My medical care home for VA is togunas Maine. I am a snowbird so I am there 4-5 months and I get care there when I am there. I have done this for a number of years so I think that is a majority of my care , I get my annual, vision, podiatry, and  other things there. They also provide all medication. 
- Only there a few months month of the care than: yes, it works well. It is unique, but it works. 
- How do you keep track of your medications, immunizations, and allergies? I don’t track it well; I don’t take anything on a monthly basis so that hasn’t been a problem. I have things for dermatology. It is rare that I take anything else unless I have a cold but that is short term. I organize it so I know when to take it, I use a manual system and that’s what I do here. I have a medicine cabinet if I need something. 
  - What do you like about your current process?
  - What is frustrating about keeping track of your medications?
- How do you keep your VA providers up-to-date on your medications? For instance, maybe you stopped taking a medication or you were prescribed a new medication from a non-VA provider, how did you let your VA providers know? I used to call but now I can just send them a message if I run out of the medication. My primary care is responsive and they will respond. I have done it for a few years. Yes, secure messaging. 
  - If you take any supplements, vitamins, or over-the-counter medications, do you share that with your VA providers? It doesn’t come up a lot because I don’t take much so there isn’t really a discussion about it. 
- Have you ever let your VA provider know about any changes to your allergy history? I am allergic to sulfur drugs. 
  - If yes, how did those experiences of letting your VA provider go? What methods did you utilize to communicate the change? It is on my medical records and its what you tend to get from birth so I have always had it. I had a bad reaction at 20 so it is in all medical records. 
- Have you ever received an immunization at a non-VA facility, maybe a non-VA provider's office or a pharmacy? I have done both. In Maine I got the shingles shot, when I an doing my annual physical that’s when we talk ab out it. If I had a short summer in Maine then I get the flu short at Walmart. 
  - If yes, how did you let your VA provider know about those immunizations? How did those experiences of letting your VA provider go? What methods did you utilize to communicate the change? My provider will ask but I tend to let them know when I have my physical in August. I let them know when I plan to get it when available. Sometimes the flu shots aren’t available in the summer. I had a problem with my shingles shot a few years ago, it’s a two shot and you need the second one and I made a trip back up north. I normally don’t go back in the dead of winter. The women’s clinic in Maine is great. 
  - Face to face: Right, I can use secure messaging but yes I have don’t it as well. 
  - COVID: yes
  - VA: no but I volunteered for it. I am helping as a non-medical person for public health and the VA to get the shots done.
  - Experience: The Atlanta va is where we are and they have done clinics throughout the area for 75+. It serve3d about 400 veterans, the second one last Saturday was impressive, almost 3000 veterans received the shots. I think that they did well considered. It wasn’t perfect but I think they had 13 stations and it was a drive through. You should have come at the appointment time and then a drive in in the afternoon if you were an essential worker. Like most veterans if you show up you’re late so what happen was that everyone showed up way before the appointment and they showed up at 5am and it didn’t start until 8. There was a massive traffic jam because it is in an urban area, it has a lot of parking garages but most of the traffic waws in the city street. There were about 100000 veterans that get the services and a lot showed up. People were mad at the cut off at 4pm, the ones that made it in did go quickly. I am the founder of the Georgia military women and we are mostly on Facebook so a lot of people came in plus a lot of VA employees. There was a tremendous number and there were 3 drive through lanes, stations checking the paperwork. You got the shot once you came in than went through the parking garage for the watch time. I was running the coffee area, the medical aid next to me and they had very few with bad reactions, only ones that was taken to the ER for precautions. The station did a nice job, the only big complaint was the timing to get in and get the shot. They did another one and you could walk in at the hospital. It went well as well. I put out word to the members and they went to it. I live about an hour away and that’s why I don’t use the va here normally. One of my friends in a wheelchair and her veteran husband got it done within 2 hours. They got in and out quick. I think the va is doing a good job at the clinics. 
  - Only issue traffic: yes. 
- Do you utilize MyHealtheVet? I get confused, there’s myhealthevet, eBenefits, blue button. I do know how to sue blue button and it works well now but before it was a nightmare. It still needs improvement. I am pretty computer literate. I don’t use it everyday is part of it, the ones with  chronic issues are on it all the time, down here I wont go over there so I would just use my Medicare. I don’t have to go to the VA
  - If yes,
    - Have you ever checked your medication list on there? Its there but there’s not much on it. I have seen it. 
   - Were those list easy or hard to understand? If hard, what did you find challenging? It’s been awhile, I tend to review it once a year. It has a lot of old stuff, once they have it they keep it forever. It would be an issue if it were a current ones. I don’t even need to go in I can just send a message to the primary care, I don’t know if it is her or her nurse. They did a good job helping with my one issue but it is already on my list if I need it that’s what I want and it gets approved. Dr. Greenleaf, she does a good job. 
- How can we make it easier for you to communicate to your VA providers? I think the hardest thing is the massive about of passwords, maybe have a button that says talk to my provider. You have to consider that so many veterans are older, women veterans I will say, they are a small percentage and are younger. I am turning 68, I am one of the older ones. I see the issue with the friends that served when I did, they don’t know how to use the computer so maybe if there was a talk to doctor button would be easier. Think of the older people with programed numbers to call people, we have the technology for it. If I could have maybe a series of radio tables, talk to doctor, make appointment, plain language . Those would be the most common ones, refill, talk to provider, need an appointment and it would cause a direct link. I know how tot do it but there are a few steps. 

## Mural Activity - 30 minutes

Next, we will complete an activity that helps prioritize and group information that we could display online in medication, allergy, and immunization sections. Let me share my screen with you, so we can start this activity: Mural link.

### Immunizations Section - 10 minutes
[Mural Screenshot](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/health-care/questionnaire/research/health-record/session-notes/mural-screenshots/P7-Immunizations.png)

Vaccine:   I will go back to the earlier statement I would hope that this would be bigger. It is larger on one side. It is very important to know the shot or medication I am looking for. 

Date: the date isn’t received isn’t as important as when I need the next one so moderately important. Know when the next one is due is very important. I have my own thing of every 5 years is when I look at what I am missing for not route shots like the flu.  

Reaction: very important for my doctor so they know the reaction I will have if they give me something. Slightly important for me to see it I guess. 

Dose: that confuses me I don’t know what that means. Well I guess lets put that as important then. 

By mouth: moderately important. 

Area: I wouldn’t use the word deltoid because people wouldn’t know what that means. I would put it in not important. 

Product: Normally it is not important but with COVID the debate is huge, usually the product name as long as I know what it is. Maybe put in under important. I think I want to know what I am getting. It is very important that I know what it is but it is confusing me because it ahs the two. It is probably very important let’s move it; I want to see it up front. 

Lot number: Not important. Only if I have a really bad reaction. 

Professions: slightly important 

Editing: I don’t know what that means, it doesn’t make sense to me. Editing what reactions. Oh for me to edit it. That I can go in and change my record, lets put it in moderately important. 

Add: I don’t really know the dates of my immunizations. It is important to know what I have had. Lets go with that. 

Comments: important

CDC: I am a snowbird so it is important to know if I need to quarantine, I travel and go overseas so it is important. I would like to see the list if I am going somewhere. 

Is there anything that should be added to immunizations that we didn't already review?  I see it but not my doctor. Being able to print out my shot list would be moderately important. If I were traveling and they wanted to know if I had them that would be good. Are they able to see the active duty immunizations. Being able to merge my active duty with my VA one would be important because I don’t want to have to take it again. 
	
**Groupings**

Let’s put the recommended screenings and when to get the next shot together. 

Um, I guess having the list of medications, date received one along with being able to print out my immunization records and active duty records together. 

I don’t care much about the lot number., who did it or rash. Okay under reactions put reaction and editing reaction together. 

First does and second does would be important for the vaccine and product manufacturer. So those should be grouped together. 

How does that sound. 

### Medications Section - 10 minutes
[Mural Screenshot](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/health-care/questionnaire/research/health-record/session-notes/mural-screenshots/P7-Medications.png)

Drug: very important

Prescribed: slightly important on who did it. 

Descriptions: not important because I don’t really care .

Quantity: very important to know I guess

Duration: important if it is an active prescription

Status: is this if I am currently taking it. So my prescriptions not the medication itself. That would be important. 

Non va or va: important 

Type: moderately important

Directions: very important

Rx number: slightly important

Refills: very important

Last refilled: I guess it would be very important

Expires: important I guess

Ordered date: slightly important

Pharmacy: moderately important 

Learn more: slightly important. It is probably the list of side effects and things like that. For me it isn’t very important but maybe put it up higher. Some people really look at it, lets put it under important

Side effects: important

Warnings: important

Add: I’m not sure, is that me adding a medication. Okay so this is my list, it would be very important to ave it on the same thing

Comments: important

Taking as prescribed:  slightly important

Is there anything that should be added to medications that we didn't already review? Nothing that is popping up for me right now. 

**Groupings**

I did more of grouping this time so the things under very important , list, how many, how long, how to take them, how many refills and when did I get my last. All of those would go together. 

Learn more, side effects, warnings to go together. 

I guess the pharmacy location

### Allergies Section - 10 minutes
[Mural Screenshot](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/health-care/questionnaire/research/health-record/session-notes/mural-screenshots/P7-Allergies.png)

List: very important

Effects: very important

Severity: very important

Add: very important

Verified: I can tell you I have the allergies but I cannot remember when it was verified. To me that is not important. The same thing for the documenting facilities. It doesn’t really matter to me. 

Onset: slightly important, that is a self-report. 

Reported by: not important

Editing reactions: not important

Learn more: important

Diagnosed: doesn’t matter, not important

Comments: important. 

Is there anything that should be added to allergies that we didn't already review?  Probably not, it has what I am allergic to and what will happen if exposed. I think that is good enough

**Groupings**

All in very important all of those should be together. 

Maybe take off of adding allergies and editing as a separate group. 

Onset date, verified, documenting, reported by and diagnosed. 

## Wrap-up Questions - 5 minutes

- Pretend you developed a new medication allergy, such as a rash when you take penicillin. Would you add that medication allergy on the medication section and/or the allergy section? Well I don’t want to take it so I wouldn’t put it under medications I would put it under allergies. 
- How often do you expect to update each of these sections?  Annually during my exam, I think it is on their check list that they ask and that should be on the list.  If it is for my own use I wouldn’t do it very often so maybe every few years but that’s the kind of thing. I see other insurance companies wanting you to do it but I wouldn’t use it much my expectation is that it is in the system and they will see it in the system. Ideally I want then all to be integrated together. I would want it to be upgraded in the system, who else would look at it. I don’t know if I am going to look at my view. I wouldn’t bother, I get the flu shot each year so if I am not having an issue I don’t like doing data entry, I am not the secretary and I wont go to the internet to pull it down that’s why it would be nice to have the print off sheet. I think it should be part of my normal records. So for me to build my own personal data base I wouldn’t do it I have enough to do. Being able to print it is the most valuable. Also if I put it in is it going to be integrated or will I need to send it to the provider. I know a lot of veterans that would not do that. 
- Automatically sent: yeah it would have to be. Maybe have a simple screen where I put the update and then that is one side then the other side to have the push button as categories so I don’t need to type a lot of go through multiple screens. Put in the problem and then 5 choices where I want it to go in the va. It must be simple graphics because I will do well but other veterans that get care, you are asking a lot for them to go in and update it. The older ones wont do it but the ones your age will. 
- Slightly better if connected: eyes and to do it simplified. Like how many clicks does it take
- Would you use it: for the flu shot no and I have been having care here. I used my healthcare down here a private provider and got results. Have I updated her, no I have not. Will I next summer yes. I normally print off copies from the doctors and take it in to her so she is up to date and the va records are updated, will I do it now, no. so I took care of my issue and I would to PT for it. Does my va doctor know about it, no they don’t because they aren’t my primary down here and there isn’t anything I need from her. If I am getting treated by a civilian provider, Medicare will not cover medication. If I am not in the hospital but need routine medication I would provide that to the va. If I needed a monthly medication I would get that to my va provider because they would provide it and need the documentation and they are good at that kind of thing. 
- If we could only build one of these topics into a pre-visit questionnaire, which one would you prefer?  My reactions there shouldn’t be a surprise. If I regularly used medication I would want that one built first. There are to many older veterans, Vietnam guys we have so many, those are the ones that use it more. Then we have the younger ladies have different needs. That is a unique needs like birth control, very important. Mammograms. Female care ahs been an issue of the tracking or getting the results. 
- Do you have any final questions for me? Veterans as young as 40 are not intuitive. He is much more advanced then typical adults his age, he can take it apart and put it back together. If they didn’t learn until high school or college they have to think more. 

## Thank-You and Closing - 5 minutes

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans.

Thanks! Lastly, do you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future user research session? If Yes: Thank you! I'll have our team send you an email with a little blurb that you can pass along.

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
