# 1:1 Interview Guide for Staff-Facing Discovery
## Moderator logistics
- Use #feedback-backchannel in Slack for real-time feedback from observers.
- Mute your Slack notifications
- Before the session, send out the observer instructions to your observers (Slackbot will do this for you if you type "observer instructions" into #feedback-backchannel).
- In the Attendees section, make sure everyone except the participant is on mute.
- In the Audio section, click the drop-down arrow and make sure "Play Entry/Exit Chimes" is unchecked
- Check your [screensharing setup] and share permissions for participants.
- When the participant is ready, begin the session with the following intro

## Intro - 5 minutes
Thanks for joining us today! My name is [NAME] and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about your experience with checking Veterans in and tracking Veterans through their appointment or services at VA.

I’ll give a bit of background on why we want to talk to you and then tell you a bit about what this hour is going to look like. The team I'm working with is looking at how VA medical centers and CBOCs currently handle checking Veterans in and tracking Veteran through their appointment or services. As you know, the kiosk tool and VetLink software that many sites use are being deprecated in the next year, and we are talking to staff, as well as Veterans, to make sure that what is built in its place meets the needs of everyone involved. 

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:
-	This entire session should take about 60 min. I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
-	In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. There are no right or wrong answers. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.
-	If we’re talking about a particular software tool you use, I may ask you to share your screen so you can show me how you use it. Is that something you’re comfortable with? It’s helpful to us to see your desktop set up. We are not testing your ability.
-	If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.
-	Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today? We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly.
  -	If yes: Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.
__Start recording.__
-	I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today?
## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes
-	**First off, can you tell me a bit about how your current role connects to Veteran check-in? And what about patient-tracking?**
  > **P16**: I've been working for the government for the past 30 years and I always worked taking care of patients. Make sure demographics properly - address, telephone number, next of kin, and get in touch with them. I've been doing this for the last 30 years for the government.
  > I worked in different areas - physical therapy, emergency room, psych, toddlers. Started working in 1991.

-	How long have you been in this role? _Also listen for whether they've been in a similar role elsewhere - either different site or outside of the VA network)_


-	In one word, how would you describe:
  -	**The process of checking in Veterans to your facility**
  > **P16**: Accurate. Because if you don't have everything done properly, it affects the whole hospital. It's like a snowball effect.
  > With everything you have to be tracking, if you don't get it correct you'll have a gap in patient care. If clerks do not from the beginning capture information right from when Veteran fills out the application (DD-214, when they first come out of the service). They must have all the information correct from there. 
  > Because you have a Medical Record and an Administration Record. So both of those have to be filled in properly - next of kin, everything. And everytime a patient comes in for the appointment, they're supposed to go through all of the demographics information with them. From there, they have to make sure the next of kin is correct and with this coronavirus, they still have a way to do that over the telephone.
  > Because if not, it will have an effect on the different clinics. For me, I work in the preop and by the time I get referrals to the clinic and I call people, sometimes, the telephone number is incorrect and that has an effect on the patient care. So all information that enters the system should be accurate. So you have to make sure all information is correct because it will have a snowball effect.
  > From the time the walk into the hospital to the time they leave up out of here, it will affect their care.

  - **Do you know any reasons why it would be incorrect?**
  > **P16**: It could be on both sides. If the clerks say, a lot of folks have a tendency to do this even if they're trained properly, they'll say is "everything the same?" And that is a NO-NO. You never say "is everything the same," you ask them for it. "Good morning, good afternoon, could I have your last name and the last four of your social?"
  > Then you go from there. You open up their charts and you say "I would like to go over your address and telephone number with you" and you let the patient give you the information. If they give you the wrong information, you should let them know.
  > And then you should also make sure they have an ID card on them. They're supposed to have some kind of proof to make sure they're the patient. Last year, for some reason they used to have in CPRS, when you pull up a patient, their picture used to come up. Now I don't see that.
  > And that was very good because you can see if that's the person you're looking at, standing in front of you.

  - **What happens if they don't have that ID?**
  > **P16**: Well then they must answer some questions. I had a gentleman who just called me recently, "Oh my name is so and so." And he kept giving me the wrong social security number, but he kept saying "Well I am him and I'm on vacation." Then I said to him "well get your social security card and call the right number to me."
  > And then he said "You're going to take me through all of that?" I said "Sir, I'm not taking you through all of it. I don't know who I'm talking to over the telephone. You say that you're the person, this will protect you.
  > Identity theft is very strong in this world, with the computers and everything. So when you decide to call me back with the proper full social security number, then we can go on." Because there is too much identity theft in this world. They hack in these computers and then the person can call, say their name is John Doe, give the wrong social security number and if John Doe do not pop up with the social security number,
  > you give me the full number and it still won't pop up, then I can not talk to you about nothing. Because you can't identify people over the phone. And if you come in, make sure you have a driver's license or something to prove you are that person.

  - **What is the impact to their service if they don't provide the right information (over the phone or otherwise)?**
  > **P16**: You ask them to find the right information because we can't give anything to a patient. Even when we call a patient, and then they start trying to talk about their chart. Clerks are not allowed to relay any information. They can get a nurse to talk to that patient, but when it comes to clerical, they can't relay anything to the patient.
  > We're not allowed to even print. "Oh can you give me that note." No, you can go to Release of Information and when you sign off, Release of Information will give you the proper papers. And I've been working 41 years straight in the medical field period, even in the private sector it's the same way.

  - **Release of Information?**
  > **P16**: That's right here on the second floor in the atrium. They can go up there and they can sign off a paper to release their records to themselves. Everything has to be in writing, we can not give anything to a patient unless they sign off for it.

  - **Impacts to the facility when the Veteran has to go get that release of information and then come back?**
  > **P16**: It would affect the Veteran care. Thats' where the Veteran needs to be honest because there is a lot of fraud in this world. I experienced in my lifetime working for the government people who will come in here and the person is dead.
  > And then they'll try to get over - "Nope, you're not getting past here." And then the computer, it says "Patient enrollment is ending May 20th, 2020 or 1980" and that means they have to go to the business office and get that correct. 
  > Something is causing that to show up in the computer. It could have to do with the means test, which has to do with income. All Veterans new to the VA do not get their care free, some have to do a copayment.

  
  - **The process of queuing and tracking patients through their appointments and services at your facility**
  > **P16**: Accurate. You're going to have a gap in patient care. To me, personally, I've been working for 41 years. Working in the medical field, I know a person's life is the most important. In order to treat another human being like a human being, treat them the way you want to be treated. Their life is very important to me. I would take this piece of paper like I would treat them, with value. There's some morals, something I take to my heart. I take my time and make sure I do everything correct. I used to be a nurse assitant before I started doing paperwork.


_For these tasks: stick to questions that are relevant to the participant’s role, ie for Admins, skip to Task 3, for on-the-ground staff, focus on Tasks 1 & 2._

## 1a) Check-In - 20 minutes
We will focus on check-in to start:
- **How do Veterans check in at your clinic / site / department?**
  > **P16**:  Call, in person at the desk. I do counsels, I get this long list, I pull them up every morning. I call to confirm their address and telephone number. Is there another number I should add or remove a number. In the system, they have a permanent and a resident address, 2 spots. You have to make sure you capture that right address and telephone number because they allow the Veteran to add that information. Sometimes Veterans go in there and they change it. 

    - Can you walk me through how each of these options works?
    - Does your site see both Vets by appointment and walk-in?
    - Is there a check-in method that you prefer in your role as a [MSA/PSA/Clerk,etc]

-	**What tools do you have open on your screen to manage patients as they come in?**
  > **P16**: The VistA GUI, VistA, CPRS chart, to inquire about the patient. There are different places where the address and telephone number may be. But you do not have to go through all of them to put it in. Enter in one place, enters all the information.

- **Do you use Vetlink?**
  > **P16**: Yes. Vetlink is where you sign in your patient once the patient comes into the clinic. After you verify the correct address and phone number is in there, you can use your Vetlink also. You check them in, make sure to over their address and telephone number. If their name pop up says ineligible, a means test needs to be done or something. Then you inform that Veteran that he needs to go to the business office and take care of that. If they do not take care of that means test, it can throw them into a different bracket. If they say they're not going to pay the copayment, it will make them ineligible until they will do that. Because they get a letter telling them they're over the threshold. 

- **How do staff know that Veterans are checked in?**
  > **P16**: Sign in your patience once they come in. If ineligible, make sure to inform the business office.

- **How is check in communicated between the front and back office?**
  > **P16**: Communication is through your Vetlink. All staff have Vetlink. They had this here for quite some time. It's really good. I like the Vetlink, once you sign them in, it will go to your providers, your nurses or anyone dealing with that patient within your area, so they can't say they didn't know the patient was there. 

- **How is it communicated when there is an issue with check in?**
  > **P16**: If I had trouble checking in, I notify my supervisor right away. I let her know and call 66685 and they'll let me know whether the whole system is down or whatever. It's like putting in a request to have something fixed. Then from there, you can go back to your old way. You can go back to your VistA and check in patients, if VistA is down, then you go back to your paper. They have a box where you go back to, like they did in 90s. We always kept this box where you keep requisitions, you keep doctors orders, you keep notes. If the system shuts down, you always have that at hand. Put everything on the paper. Then once the system comes back up, you put it into the system. There's a lot of backups. And the paper is the last backup you use, but everybody should have this secure box to keep all these different things. YOu have a requisition for xrays, requsitions for blood, paper note, doctor order, you keep it, but it all has to be entered into the system. 

- **How do staff communicate with Veterans that they're ready to see them?**
  > **P16**: The nurse comes out and gets the patient. Once the Vetlink check in, then the nurse comes out calls them by name, take them in the room. That's what happens in the pre-op clinic. Upstairs in the other clinics, they do the same way since they have the Vetlink.

- **What concerns would you have about Vets checking-in before they are physically on site versus allowing check-in to occur X minutes (maybe 10-20 minutes) before the scheduled appointment time?**
  > **P16**: Oh that is a big problem. Patients would check in and that kiosk...They'll check in and then sit down. And a majority of the time, they'll be checking in the wrong clinic. We don't do kiosks in the pre-op. We gotta get them in a timely manner and they need to be seen. The date of surgery is already set up with the surgical beds, they got to get cleared. With pre-op, we don't use that check in. They have to come here physically, they have to finish a questionnaire or some paperwork before the nurse calls them. 

## Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes
-	**What capabilities of the kiosk and VetLink software (or current check-in system) would you say MUST be included within the new system (the items that can’t be removed)?**
  > **P16**: People have a tendency to run in here too early. Some people will be, it's a policy, you schedule a patient you have to call them. You offer them a time, they pick a time. They said they can't check in before their appointments, that's not true. They check in before their appointments and some people get aggravated and then they leave. "I checked in, but you didn't call me." You have to go by appointments. Appointments are made to make sure you keep control over the atmosphere, make sure not too many people just sitting around waiting. That's the reason you make appointment. Things say you can come 30 minutes before the appointment, you shouldn't come an hour or two before and then get mad with the hospital, "You're making me sit around here all day." And that happens. Too much.

-	**What worries do you have about the Kiosk & VetLink software going away and a new check-in process/system being available in its place?**
  > **P16**: No. Like I said, I've been working with the government since 1991, these are constantly changing. Whatever they change, all you can do is ride it out with the system. 

- **How does that work when the systems change? Do you have to go through training, how does that work?**
  > **P16**: Everytime things change you have to be trained. And they gotta make sure staff understands the changes. It's vital that staff understands the changes. Like I said, I have been here since 91, there have been a lot of changes, some for the good and some not.  

- **Do you see any patterns in the ones that are "not for the good"?**
  > **P16**: It's almost like a repetition thing. They say "it's going to be for the better." But to me, not really, I think it has a lot to do with the technology. Anyway it goes, even if you had that paper, because now a Veteran goes online and fills it out. Those numbers must be correct, the name, even the spelling of the patient name must be correct, the birthday. A lot of people get upset because of their birthday. Once it's in there, we can't do anything, they'll have to get in touch with (Hincs?) They have to come up with all kind of ID showing that. It's so important when they capture, they gotta capture that information correctly, for example, including the parentheses.

- **Call comes in**
  > **P16**: Someone called me saying they have surgery on the 28th and I have time for them to come in next week.

  > **P16**: When I call the patient, I say the day's date, time you call, where I'm calling from, and ask please call back.  Some patient will say, "I never got a message from you." And when we leave messages, a letter has to be sent out to the patient. And then the requirements is up to 3 times. Every 14 days, you have to call that patient. Then after the 3rd time attempt to call, the system is set up where you can refer that back to service through send a Counsel. I deal with a lot of counsel.

-	**How do you support Veterans who are hard of hearing or deaf during check-in?**
> **P16**: I talk louder, you can't give them a hearing aid down here.

-  **How do you support Veterans who are blind or have limited vision?**
> **P16**: The nurse, notify the nurse that the patient can't see and they do a questionnaire down here. The nurse will help them fill out the questionnaire. 

> Let me tell you what's really bad up here. They text patients, and when they're texting patients. And give them their appointments. But on that text on their phones, the text is so small, when they try to confirm it, a lot of patients, it's canceling their appointments. And then with this clinic here, I call them and let them know...are you sure you want to cancel your appointment? 

- **Do you do that for every patient?**
> **P16**: Oh yeah, we don't have any choice. We're getting people ready for surgery. Those surgical beds are set up. That costs money. You lose money when you can't get the patient in there. It all boils down to the snowball effect. If we don't do it right, they won't get to surgery. And the nurses down here, we work together, they make sure we keep our no shows down to a minimum. Very seldom we get no-shows. I started working for this pre-op in 2014 and we worked together to eliminate those noshows - work on the counsels with the gatekeeper, we communicate. Communication is the key to everything. If you cannot communicate, then the right hand does not know what the left hand is doing. And it all boils down to giving quality care to a patient, you're giving them your best. And you'd be surprised in how many people are losing faith in all hospitals. I can speak for myself, when you go to the hospital, you expect them to be able to meet your needs. There is a physical, mental, spiritual, sometimes financial needs for the veterans. So you should be able to meet them at all aspects of their life. With mental health and all that. Ther has to come to a time where that patient, you listen to them, and you gain their trust. They know that you know what you're talking about. I don't turn anyone down.
> **P16**: Even when I see they're in the wrong area when I pull up their chart, I say, let me get you to the right resource. The more you know in the hospital, the better the hospital will be. That will make the hospital stand out. I've been working here for 30 years, and I've been working in the medical field for 41. I worked at this VA Hospital here, Louis Stokes, when I was 17, and went to school to become a teacher, and then I ended up here in 1991. 

> **P16**: My thing is, when they change the software, I study it. I can tell you if they changed anything in the software. Because I study my programs, my training, I still study and know my screen. 

-	If you could design check-in anyway that you wanted, what would that check-in process look like?
## Thank-You and Closing - 2 minutes
We really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on this experience for both staff and Veterans.
-	Would your site be open to a site visit, where a researcher from our team observes check-in in person?
- **Would you be interested in doing more research like this in the future?**
> **P16**: Yes, I'm willing to do whatever to make this hospital better. It all boils down, someone trusts you with their life. Their life is more precious than silver and gold. Their life is very valuable. If I can help you in any kind of way to make your day better or your life better. You'd be surprised how you can talk to a person and it can make a difference in their life. Give them confidence to go forward in their life. 

-	**Any questions for me?**
> **P16**: No, you're welcome to get in touch with me any time, I'm willing to help out with anything I can. In 1991, the VA wasn't in the computer. In 1991, I was on the group that help started the system with the computer. We had to transcribe the doctor's orders. 

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
