<h1>Notes</h1>

* “Stuff that leaves Vets.gov"
* Text or email
* Check the status of things when they otherwise don’t need to sign in to Vets.gov
* No current way to confirm:
  * Va has received an application asynchronously
  * Form is about to expire (without signing into Vets.gov)

For big use cases, see Proposed notifications
The biggest one everyone is talking about:
* Submission notifications (VA is down, let them know that stuff is received)

What are the policies around notifications for us? What can we send / not send?
* Samara to look deeper and brief team
* Name is ok, but not if associated with other things (e.g., prescription)

VIC - immediate need
* Sending name & confirmation #
* Ryan: "Does that cross the line?”

Personalization
* What holistic notification treatment do we need?
* Policies -
* User research
* Content
* Design

Asynchronous application submissions
* Synchronous would be - user hits submits, everything sends at once.
* This is problematic if issues on backend (its down) and undesirable because they get an error message but if they don’t resubmit they application, its just sitting there doesn’t go through
* If they are logged in it will be saved on Vets and they will have to submit again
* Asynchronous - user hits submit, submission attempt continuous until it goes through
* Can set a time limit where if it doesn’t submit for 24 hours can let them know it failed or that we are attempting to submit or come back at a later time


Questions:
* ID-me notifications (how are they currently being handled and does this jibe with what we are creating?) - holding on this for now
* Applications missing from this list?
  * Post 9-11 GI bill
  * Health records
* Start with Asynchronous application submissions
* Backend built out by Lihan, ready
* https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/vets.gov-team/issues/4376
* Do we need to establish a governance board?
* Who need to be informed / review the notification before it is approved to send?

Considerations
* Search through Reframer for any mentions of notifications / emails from past research
* Stakeholder influences - Awards for Disability Claims
* Need to reach out to see if any stakeholders have preferences beyond this

----

USEFUL DOCS

Kickoff Outline
https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/vets.gov-team/blob/master/Products/Identity/Personalization/Notifications/Meeting%20Agenda%20-%201.26.18.md

Notifications Discovery Project Brief & Planning Template
https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/vets.gov-

_______________________________________________________________________________________________________________

<h1>Agenda</h1>

<h2>What we'll cover</h2>

* [Why we're here](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/vets.gov-team/blob/master/Products/Identity/Personalization/Notifications/Meeting%20Agenda%20-%201.26.18.md#why-were-here)
* [Work we've done so far](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/vets.gov-team/blob/master/Products/Identity/Personalization/Notifications/Meeting%20Agenda%20-%201.26.18.md#work-weve-done-so-far)
* [Testing](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/vets.gov-team/blob/master/Products/Identity/Personalization/Notifications/Meeting%20Agenda%20-%201.26.18.md#testing)
* [Next steps](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/vets.gov-team/blob/master/Products/Identity/Personalization/Notifications/Meeting%20Agenda%20-%201.26.18.md#next-steps)

<h2>Why we're here</h2>

<h4>Today</h4>

Non-kickoff meeting for notifications:

* Start talking about Vets.gov notifications (eg. text, email) as a broader team.
* Get the team up to speed on the work Rachael and Samara have done so far.
* Start talking about user testing, technical discovery, and next steps.

<h4>In General</h4>

To figure out how to best incorporate text/email/other notifications into Vets.gov because:

* Vets.gov users have to check back into the site for updates on the status of claims, prescriptions, and messages. They may be signing in solely to check the status of these things when they otherwise don't need to sign in or visit vets.gov.
* There is no way to confirm the VA has received an application asynchronously.
* There is no way to let people know that a form is about to expire without them signing in to vets.gov.

<h2>Work we've done so far</h2>

* Reviewed previous conversations on notifications in GitHub.
* Reviewed different flows and found potential opportunities for notifications:
  * [Healthcare Application Interaction Map](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/vets.gov-team/blob/master/Products/Identity/Personalization/Notifications/Healthcare%20Application%20—%20Interaction%20Map.png)
  * [Education Application Interaction Map](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/vets.gov-team/blob/master/Products/Identity/Personalization/Notifications/Education%20Application%20—%20Interaction%20Map.png)
  * [Disability Application Interaction Map](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/vets.gov-team/blob/master/Products/Identity/Personalization/Notifications/Disability%20Application%20—%20Interaction%20Map.png)
  * [Claims & Appeals Interaction Map](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/vets.gov-team/blob/master/Products/Identity/Personalization/Notifications/Claims%20%26%20Appeals%20—%20Interaction%20Map.png)
  * [Prescription & Messaging Interaction Map](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/vets.gov-team/blob/master/Products/Identity/Personalization/Notifications/Prescriptions%20%26%20Messaging%20—%20Interaction%20Map.png)
  * The Pension application and user feedback form on vets.gov may also incorporate notifications. However, these features are currently not live on the site, so we will have to revisit when they're live again.
  * There are new applications in the pipeline (eg. VR&E application, Pre-burial needs), and we will explore the notifications needed for those features later.
  * We have not looked into sign up/login notifications.
* Completed the [Notification Discovery Brief](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/vets.gov-team/blob/master/Products/Identity/Personalization/Notifications/Notifications%20Discovery%20Brief.md) and started outlining an initial testing plan.

<h4>Proposed notifications</h4>

For the most part, these are agnostic of medium (email, text, action center notification, a notification elsewhere on vets.gov).

* Applications (Healthcare, Eduation, Disability, etc)
  * Submission
    * (Asynchronous) The VA’s system is down, but we will submit your application as soon as it’s back up.
    * We have received your application.
    * *Disability only*: The VA’s system is down, but we will update your address as soon as it’s back up.
    * *Disability only*: We have updated your address.
  * Reminder
    * Don’t forget to complete your application.
  * Action Required
    * Your application is about to expire.
  * Future/nice to have (may or may not be possible)
    * We noticed you were browsing for information on [X] benefits. Would you like to apply?
    * A decision on your application has been reached.
* Claims & Appeals
  * Notice
    * The status of your claim has been updated. Please login to Vets.gov for more information.
    * A decision on your application has been reached.
* Prescriptions & Messaging
  *	Notice — In App (**Note**: Email notifications are already sent from MyHealtheVet when these things happens.)
    * Your prescription has shipped.
    * You have a new message from your healthcare team.
  * Future/nice to have (may or may not be possible)
    * You can now send your healthcare team messages on Vets.gov. 

<h4>Discussions</h4>

* Are there any flows we missed?
* Are the maps we created helpful in identifying opportunities for notifications? Anything we overlooked?
* Are there any known technical considerations we should flag right now?

<h2>Testing</h2>

<h4>Goals</h4>

* Learn more about people's notification preferences, both in terms of how they receive and how they manage notifications.
* Determine when and what notifications are most helpful in a particular vets.gov flow.
* Determine whether the content of notifications make sense and communicates clearly and effectively to people.
* Determine if people understand how to manage notifications.

<h4>Plan</h4>

Here is the general flow we should follow for testing:

* Create a preliminary prototype that tests MVP functionality and content for notifications.
* Evaluate general notification-related behavior and preferences.
* Evaluate where and how notifications would be helpful in particular flows.

Since we are adding notifications to multiple flows, it would be impractical to try to test all of these flows at the same time. Instead, we should test notifications for different flows one group at a time in the following order:

1. Applications
    * Disability (so the feature can launch with notifications)
    * Healthcare
    * Education
2. Claims & Appeals
3. Prescriptions & Messaging
4. Pension application (when it re-launches)
5. User feedback (when it re-launches)
6. Future features
    * VR&E application.
    * Pre-need burial form.

<h4>Discussion</h4>

* Does this plan make sense? If not, what could be improved?
* Is there anything missing, either from our goals or our methods?
* What's the best way to realistically test notifications that leave vets.gov?

<h2>Next steps</h2>

* Who would be the team for this project? (This group + developers)
* When do we think we might have developers? How much can we do before technical discovery happens?
* What kind of resources do we have if we decide to build a prototype?
* Any immediate issues that come to mind that we should flag, either for testing or for technical discovery?
