<h2>Technical dicovery chat with Ryan and Lihan</h2>

HCA
-submission
-what happens if have to submit asynchronously
-backend systems might be down, can’t be successfully received until later
-maybe not ever successfully received, need re-submit
Lihan worked on:
-basic asynchronous submissions
-never merged because didn’t have notification ATT
(WIP) CREATE A JOB TO SUBMIT HCA
-dropped in user notification channel
-he made a new table in the backend
-couple of states
-success, error, failed, pending
-column for what we get from HCA service
QUESTIONS
-use case where fails completely? User has to come back and submit?
-can we use profile
-a form could validate our submission, but not validate theirs
-if its not validated according to their standards it fails
-veteran first name- they require 20 char, but we require 25
	-it would pass through our form, everything is fine, but their server sends an error
*we can enable this functionality through the submission process (we prepare on the backend side to continue to work until the service is up and it can send it through)
*is there a timeout window here? - 21 days
*Is this thing ready to merge?
-no worked on it 6 months ago will be merge conflicts
*How often are applications failing?
-lihan: hasn’t noticed any validation-type errors
-sometiumes the HCA servers would be down
-not now, but was down for a few hours a few weeks ago
*what happens now when asynchronous fails?
-they get notified on final page - its currently synchronous submission
*what are we using to send emails right now?
-gov-delivery for internal reports
-what about external?
	-bob mentioned there is an integration with gov-delivery that could be used in this scenario
*how many applications submitted by people that have not created an account?
-probably - bob
-samara will ask in user-notifications
How do we know when HCA is down
-getting errors
-they emailed us and told us
-logging
If a logged out user submits an application that eventually fails, do we have any of their data saved? Do they have to start their application from scratch?
-browser session is locally stored, if they click out of the tab its gone
Ben S
Asycn stuff dependencies
-how much work to merge that and do that?
-sound like just hook in gov delivery to
2 routes for Asynch vs. Synch?
-Ben S to flesh this out further
CONSIDERATIONS
-not currently doing asynchronous
-only doing synchronous 1-time submission at the moment
-would need to add something new to the frontend to notify user if validations not passed
-we don’t tell them specifics, we just tell them it didn’t work (ATM)
