Summary of Proposed Solution

Phase 1 plan: Build a MySql + Ruby on Rails database to capture all data around sexual assault cases, from initial report through dispositions, courts martial, sentencing and confinement. Expose the data through an open data platform so that the public, press, and Congress can get more accurate data about sexual assault.
Phase 2 plan: -- As of Tuesday, June June 7th, DDS just completed a discovery sprint. Our recommendations from that sprint include prototyping a “Commander’s Dashboard” that will allow for localized analysis at the command-level, to provide commanders with a better understanding of the climate of assault within their units and how they compare with other commands. The goal of this effort is to surface pockets of destructive behavior as well as local innovations might be shared - To support this need, we recommend the Defense Digital Service build a prototype “Commander's Dashboard” that will help commanders answer questions about what is happening within their command using data from DSAID. The tool should allow commanders and regional SAPR offices to quickly answer questions like:
How many reports occurred over a certain time period in my command? How many reports in each sub-command?
How does my command compare to commands with similar attributes within my Service, or to the military as a whole?
What are the outcomes for reports in my command? (percentage court-martialed, percentage unfounded, etc.)
How many reports allege assault between a victim and subject who are separated by at least two pay grades or rank? - The list above is not comprehensive, but provides a sense of the potential opportunities for analysis. Commanders and staff should be able to customize the data presented, but the tool should offer insight by default, without customization. SAPRO is currently building data warehouse capabilities into DSAID which includes visualization options that may support such a dashboard. - DDS would like to partner with SAPRO to build-out these ideas using the data warehouse, with the goal of expanding access to service SAPR offices, SARCs and commanders throughout the Forces. It is essential that we extend access outside of the SAPR office in order to garner the greatest benefit from this additional transparency. Commanders are entrusted with the responsibility of making military justice decisions. They should have full access to the data that will make those decisions more sound. Please see the implementation appendix for additional details on this proposal.
The remaining recommendations are computer system and process improvements we suggest the Department implement, without planning to be directly involved.
Success Criteria/Expected Benefits/Metrics - Phase I (SAD/SICD)

Phase 1: We expected to provide transparency into how Sexual Assaults were handled. This would have allowed the DoD to make better policy decisions and would have given the public (and servicemembers) more confidence in the justice system.
Phase 2: We are still focused on transparency, and make several recommendations about transparency to external stakeholders. Our team’s efforts are focused on providing data to commanders to help them understand and prevent assault in the units under their command. We will be successful if several of our recommendations are followed, and we are able to build a dashboard that makes a difference in how locations work on assault prevention - either by finding data to inform department-wide policy, or by localized efforts promoting good work and finding and fixing problem hot spots.
Ultimately: if the agency is praised by activist organizations and members of Congress for its "new commitment to transparency" and "swifter justice for victims"
