
# Tech set-up

Are you using a computer or mobile phone during our session today 
- Laptop - usually. Depends on what i’m looking for
 
Mac or Windows?
- Windows operating system, I’m using it on a laptop
 
JAWS
- JAWS told me it’s recording!
 
iOS (iPhone) or Android?
- iPhone user

Basic Web usage
- Don’t go to va.gov unless push notification. I go to google search first

Are you wearing headphones today? If so, would it be possible for you to take them off and use your computer or mobile audio? I'm asking so that I can hear your screen reader during the session.
- Headphones and a mic. Do you need to hear my JAWS? I have the zoom conference routed to my headset and the JAWS routed to my laptop. Can you hear it now? I can get closer
[not sure if I caught this correctly but I thought he said] Surface pro?
Microphone is not the best :/
 
What browser are you using today?
- Typically Chrome but trying to migrate to Edge.  i like to use one platform (windows/Microsoft)
 
Do you have a screen reader on this device?
- JAWS 2021

How long have you been using it?
- Since ‘03
 
Are you using a screen magnifier today?
- yes
 
Are there any other assistive technologies that you use?
[if deaf/hard-of-hearing, the participant may require captions which need to be turned on in advanced settings]
- iphone

Do you know your screen reader's verbosity setting? High, medium, low? 
[If high, be prepared to have them repeat anything that can't be heard or understood]
- I leave it on high - if it’s reading too much on high, then i hit the control - just in case 
 
I may need to pause you at times and ask you what you're hearing if I can't make out what's being read.
- Ok to pause
 
# Questions

How do you normally find information on va.gov - what channels, why do they choose that channel and how often they use it Do you sign into va.gov (using Veteran’s info) - why or why not?
- Yes, sign in.

What do you do when you can’t find the information you need on VA.gov?
(did not ask)

How often do you speak with a VA help desk/contact center? What were some of the reasons you have called a VA help desk/contact center in the past?
- Not on va.gov that often, typically using it as a portal to get to myhealthevet. I sign in on MHV.
 
When you contacted, why contacted? 
- Most of the time I don’t call help desk, I’m pretty much a secure messaging person that’s why I go to MHV
 
Have you ever used a chatbot or virtual agent online - why or why not? What were you doing on it
- I have not - my spelling is terrible - if i could dictate into it.  Anything complicated for words.  Typically if i want to use a chatbox, I type it up in MS Word first, spell check it and then copy it into the chatbox.
 
Were you aware that VA.gov had a coronavirus chatbot? If yes -- Did you use the Coronavirus chatbot on VA.gov - why or why not?
- Yes I know they had a web site - a chatbox.  I knew they had a web site. But no chatbox.
 
What assistive technology do you use to interact with the Internet?
- (Did not answer)
 
Do you use Alexa, Google Home, Cortana, Siri, Bixby, Facebook portal or any other conversational tool?
-  Good thing you didn’t say Sharky! That triggers JAWS. I have Alexa - used it for a while since beginning (month 1, month 2) - use it for baseball games, radio, Sirius
- I like to listen to baseball games, so I have my SiriusXM radio app. Or if wife is out, I’ll use it to keep me company, ask it questions. Originally from Cleveland Ohio.
- I also have short term memory difficulties, so if you could email me the link that would be best.
- Bandwidth issues - wifi.  With Zoom running it it slows it down
 
# Product interaction

-  Hold on, let me navigate the page so I know where I am first. So I have a virtual agent, I imagine that’s what you want me to know. You have 15 headings on the page. {screen reader going through the disclaimer text on the left} So basically it’s a website with some stuff on it. Typically if I go to a website, you wouldn’t be here, so I just want to see what links I have. So it sounds like I’m on va.gov, just a different portal to it, different page. Ok so I’m going to hit B for buttons. That must be an input box, let me hit the letter e.  (Message input box)
‘There are no tables on this page’
- So I asked it “this is terry” and it came back with a bot that says it doesn’t know who I am. I think it would be a little more personal (if it knew who I was). 
- So once I asked the first question, am I still in the chatbox? Yes.
(keyboard focus finds other links on page, finds the input box for chatbot again)
- Types MOVE PROGRAM - So I asked for the move program, which is a health thing, and it came back with, well you can see. It didn’t give me a good answer for that. Expected to see something about Health/weight controlling and exercise.
Navigated off when you entered in?!?! Had to get secondary menu ‘select a form field’
- Types VIIST PROGRAM. Got information about Fully Developed Claims Program. But expected Visual impairment assistance team (VIIST) information. Either I’m doing something wrong or… 
- Takes a little time to understand how the webpage is set up. Some of the VA websites have to have my form fields turned off, so I have to hit enter
Have to remember to turn off automatic form fields, because the VA website doesn’t say that. Do you remember to turn it off? I turn it off for all of them.  It can be inconvenient - used to be the only way to navigate that.
- I use the element navigation on a web page (not buttons). I like to use that, it’s easier for me. Some other vets use the tab key but that gets me nowhere.
Is that the correct term, for a chatbot, to see message input? I would think it would say enter chat or chat message Is “message input” the right term? If you call it a chat or chat message. Rather than message input.  
- Type BLIND CENTER, gets VA location (got information about VA location/in-network community care provider). Don’t like that (COVID) warning there. This is too much information. Basically I’m asking about the location of the blind center. It tells me where to go but the extra information about covid below. Don’t need covid and have to wear a mask - it’s implied.  That’s the stuff I should get when I get to the site. I don’t really need to hear it now, too early in the process. I did get something that time. I think it would have been better to go straight to the blind centers instead of VA locations. There’s a webpage for the blind centers.
 
# Closing questions
Now that we tested the product, we’d like to understand your experience.

Did the chatbot answer your questions accurately?
- No
 
Did it understand what you were trying to ask?
- It didn’t answer it correctly, so it didn’t understand what I was trying to say.
 
After reading the response, did you have the information you needed to take the next step to complete your task?
- The third time when I asked it for blind centers, it did give me some place to go.
 
If the chatbot wasn’t able to answer your question, how did that make you feel?
- It really, emotionally didn't affect me at all, but you know, I guess it made me feel disappointed or concerned that it didn’t work.
 
The chatbot could answer both general questions (for example, location of a VA facility) and personal questions (your benefit status). However, you must sign into va.gov for the chatbot to answer personal questions. How do you prefer to use this chatbot? a) I would prefer to sign in, so I can get answers to personal questions. b) I would prefer not to sign in, even if it means I cannot get personalized answers. c) I don't know.
- (uses MHV) I would prefer to sign in. I would prefer to be more secure with my questions. Could I go to the chatbox and ask the results of my blood test? That’s something I’d like to be able to do. When is my next appointment or what was my last blood test?
 
How do you feel about the voice of the response you received? Voice refers to the personality of the chatbot (friendly, chatty, dry, etc.)
- I just had my JAWS talk. I didn’t hear the voice that was being used. We talked about messaging, being totally blind. I don’t see the page at all, so I don’t really care what font you use or what it looks like, as long as I can get the information I need. I was able to do that once I understood the page. When you’re using the screen reader, you filter out the words you need and get rid of the ones you don’t need, just keywords. 
- Do you have to say bot? I’m 70 so bot to me doesn’t mean anything. If you’re 20-30, a bot means a lot of things to you. But maybe there’s a term that could mean something to everyone?
- I would prefer chatbox.
 
How do you feel about the tone of the response you received? Tone refers to the style of response (professional, bureaucratic, casual, etc.)
- (see above)
 
How do you feel about the quality of the response you received? Quality refers to your satisfaction with the accuracy of responses. Were you given the right link? Was your question answered?
- Well it responded to it, but did it do it correctly, no.
- We’re talking about beta.  I prefer the minimal amount of information to answer the question.  Specifically if it opens up another web page - just tell me on the page. I see what the links are to give me a description of what I'll find.
 
What content (questions and topics) would you find valuable in a chatbot?
- Typically I do not go to the web page.  I go to google search.  If chatbox could be used as a search engine to get answers that would be beneficial to me. I would be more likely to go to chatbox on va.gov to find info (rather than google).  I’d have a shortcut on my desktop and go right to it.
- It would be nice if i could schedule an appointment and it launched and so better off if you were signed in and check my appointments… pretty much like a calendar app on iphone.  I would prefer it on my iphone, no question about it.
- I do get Email notifications through my healthevet.  I can go there to MHV - if I could emulate what MHV does with the chatbox. Email that MHV sends (appointment reminders) is much easier to dictate.
 
How can a chatbot help you reduce how often you call the VA? (How quickly do they take you to a human… and escalating, what’s the threshold)
- Typically only talk to on a regular basis is my primary care doctor so - i don’t use talk to the VA.  don't talk to a lot of people, I don’t know if it’s just me - independent or stubborn
 
Based on your experience today, are you willing to use the chatbot again?
- I would say if it could do the things we talked about then yes - but if it’s just to answer my questions then no probably not - so get info about appointments.  I don’t think it was that interactive.  Don’t know if we didn’t go deep
Value would come in as a smartphone application and launch it and say who’s the director or the hospital.
 
Do you have any other feedback you'd like to share?
- I’m pretty excited about these types of products. It takes a lot, a room with lots of developers. At one time I was an automation engineer and I would stand in front of people and ask them what they wanted the machine to do. 
- Again, typically if I don’t get a push notification for something, I don’t go to look at it. I won’t go to it just to see if I have one. 
- Being a blind consumer, I don’t deal very well with paper. A form that could be pre-populated with my information would be helpful. You have all my information already, so there’s no reason you couldn’t just populate it already.
- When do I get feedback on how this is doing? :) 
- As far as accessibility, it was fairly easy to navigate, what you put together. Most websites now are better than average. We in the blind community get lazy and we like to blame it on the developers, when really the blind person doesn’t know how to use their tool. I don’t want to get into that, that’s a whole other thing. My experience, the blind centers are not doing justice for training a veteran on how to navigate the application or what techniques to use to understand the website. You can’t just go in there tabbing around… 
- Out here in the community, most of the blind veterans don’t use VA.gov or MHV, because they’re really intimidated on using the website. They don’t know how to get the visual defined in your mind what it looks like, so you can navigate it.
