# Tech set-up

Are you using a computer or mobile phone during our session today?
- Laptop
 
Mac or Windows?
- Mac

Are you wearing headphones today? If so, would it be possible for you to take them off and use your computer or mobile audio? I'm asking so that I can hear your screen reader during the session.
- no
 
What browser are you using today?
- Safari
 
Do you have a screen reader on this device?
- Yes
 
What screen reader do you use?
- Voiceover

How long have you been using it?
- 2014 - 7 years.
 
Are you using a screen magnifier today?
- no
 
Are there any other assistive technologies that you use?
- Besides Voiceover? No.

Do you know your screen reader's verbosity setting? High, medium, low? 
- Medium

# Questions

Thank you for working through that with us. We can get started with some questions. How do you normally find information on va.gov - what channels, why do they choose that channel and how often they use it
- There’s two ways - usually I just do whatever I want to ask. I do a basic Google search and then go directly to va.gov.  But I find that Google search I don't have to be as specific as I have to be with va.gov. 

Do you sign into va.gov (using Veteran’s info) - why or why not?
- Yes I sign in. It times you out.  I was on MHV last night so I haven't been on in a week.  Most of the time after 10-15 min. of inactivity it times you out.  Definitely need to sign in.

What do you do when you can’t find the information you need on VA.gov?
- If it’s anything health related i’ll see if i can find it on myhealthevet.  That’s basically about it.

How often do you speak with a VA help desk/contact center? What were some of the reasons you have called a VA help desk/contact center in the past?
- 3 times a year on the average
- I had to call during the shutdown because a lot of the web services aren't being maintained.  The site wasn’t being updated, so I had to call a few months ago when I forgot my password and I couldn't reset it on the web site so had to manually reset.  I call when I can't find what I'm looking for through web search or Google search.
 
Have you ever used a chatbot or virtual agent online - why or why not? What were you doing on it?
- Yes.  Used a chatbot for underamor web site.  Sort out a discrepancy when i got charged for baggage fees (AA?).  I used one for id.me - used a virtual agent for that.
- It was negative because they were typing faster than what i could focus the screenreader on and focus the information.  I’m not the fastest typist in the world - it gets a little frurstrating on their end.  Even though I said i use a screenreader it’s not fast enough.
 
Were you aware that VA.gov had a coronavirus chatbot? If yes -- Did you use the Coronavirus chatbot on VA.gov - why or why not?
- No
 
What assistive technology do you use to interact with the Internet?
- No, basically VoiceOver
 
Do you use Alexa, Google Home, Cortana, Siri, Bixby, Facebook portal or any other conversational tool?
- Alexa - as a conversational tool? How do you use it?
- To set alarms, reminders, listen to music and sports rather than by TV
- For anything task related - order something online? No.  Why not? I know you can do it voice specific but i have other people in the house and I don’t want to open up that can of worms
 
# Product interaction
 
- Types ‘how can I apply for benefits’.  
- Seems like the screenreader skipped to response.
- ‘Suggested container area is empty’
- Seems to read, can’t navigate to things without buttons
- Reads ‘you are on a text element’
 
# Closing questions

Now that we tested the product, we’d like to understand your experience. Did the chatbot answer your questions accurately?
- Yes - it explained the step from 1 to 4, what info i needed, and how i can apply for benefits, form, mail online.
 
Did it understand what you were trying to ask?
- yes
 
After hearing the response, did you have the information you needed to take the next step to complete your task?
- Yes I did. 

Anything specific in the response that gave you confidence? 
- It had a phone number on it.  If i didn’t understand it did give me the opportunity to ask more questions.  Might have been easier if i asked a question i didn’t know the answer to.
 
If the chatbot wasn’t able to answer your question, how did that make you feel?
- With it interacting with this program, this chatbot, I felt confident of course - I did have the navigation problem, that’s a VoiceOver problem.  Once Ohad my personal email open, and a bell message at the same time.  I navigated past it.  It was hard to get back but after a few minutes I did.
 
The chatbot could answer both general questions (for example, location of a VA facility) and personal questions (your benefit status). However, you must sign into va.gov for the chatbot to answer personal questions. How do you prefer to use this chatbot? a) I would prefer to sign in, so I can get answers to personal questions. b) I would prefer not to sign in, even if it means I cannot get personalized answers. c) I don't know.
- a) I would prefer to sign in, so I can get answers to personal questions.  I know when i do sign into va.gov web site it pretty much know withe address bar it’s validated.  Usually a message in teh heading that you’re on a secure site. My healthevet has a statement about misuse of web site.  
 
How do you feel about the voice of the response you received? Voice refers to the personality of the chatbot (friendly, chatty, dry, etc.)
- I believe you told me it was a virtual agent, so you know you’re not getting a human or personality, just information.  That’s what i got.  I was ok with it.

(Are you more concerned about accuracy of responses, or how responses told to you.  -  Accuracy).
 
How do you feel about the tone of the response you received? Tone refers to the style of response (professional, bureaucratic, casual, etc.)
- Professional

Do you prefer that? 
- Yes.  my concerns and questions - if I’m a Veteran using the VA site I would get professional responses.
 
How do you feel about the quality of the response you received? Quality refers to your satisfaction with the accuracy of responses. Were you given the right link? Was your question answered?
- I was very satisfied
 
What content (questions and topics) would you find valuable in a chatbot?
- Could be a whole bunch - VA locations, definitely.  Minor medical questions, definitely VA benefits.  Any recreational wellness, Crisis Line is always important.
 
How can a chatbot help you reduce how often you call the VA? (How quickly do they take you to a human… and escalating, what’s the threshold)
- Yes, it can help me reduce amount of time calling the VA - reduce wait time.  Simple question i can get a response to. Save time, resources, money.
- If it wasn’t able to answer, what would be your threshold before you did call the VA? If it couldn’t answer, then i would be searching myself and then i would call.  It would be a step before i called the VA.  
- Would it be an amount of time or amount of questions? Probably the amount of questions.  
- How many questions inaccurate before calling? Maybe three
 
Based on your experience today, are you willing to use the chatbot again?
- Yes - now that I did it, I’m curious and fascinated at the same time and like I said, something that doesn’t use resources or use a whole lot of time. Resources being sometimes call the VA and that person doens’t have the answer, and they transfer you to the department, and it’s not the department you should be talking to.  You can get transferred two or three times that can be frustrating. 
 
Do you have any other feedback you'd like to share?
- It was a great experience… looking forward to another study.
