
Note Participant 3 actually cancelled, so in the final report this is actually Participant 4)

# Tech set-up

Are you using a computer or mobile phone during our session today?
- Mobile
- Note lost power earlier and with construction - not sure how good connection is
 
iOS (iPhone) or Android?
- iPhone

Are you wearing headphones today? If so, would it be possible for you to take them off and use your computer or mobile audio? I'm asking so that I can hear your screen reader during the session.
- no
 
What browser are you using today?
- Safari
 
Do you have a screen reader on this device?
- yes

What screen reader do you use?
- VoiceOver

How long have you been using it?
- 2009
 
Are you using a screen magnifier today?
- no
 
Are there any other assistive technologies that you use?
- Use Jaws for laptop.

Do you know your screen reader's verbosity setting? High, medium, low? 
- Medium
 
# Questions

How do you normally find information on va.gov - what channels, why do they choose that channel and how often they use it
- They asked me this last week
- I hardly ever search on va.gov.  I usually just type in with google,  I’m used to pages being cluttered.  Having nav on top left is good.  The faster you get to info with heading level 1 will get me there in a hurry.  A lot of time i don’t do it the way you do it. I’d just assume there’s a search box.  I’m a power user - background in computers.  And i know a lot of ways to get the answers you want on Google.  I may not be the best judge of this.
 
Do you sign into va.gov (using Veteran’s info) - why or why not?
- I don’t go to va.gov for anything.  I use myhealthevet - that’s the one thing ion the VA site for prescriptions and appointments. I have a bookmark or favorite.  Last time i did the login it was a bit unclear.  When i got in with MHV it was lay out just fine.  Use it every month.
 
What do you do when you can’t find the information you need on VA.gov?
- I look for a contact us link somewhere and find the right department

How often do you speak with a VA help desk/contact center? What were some of the reasons you have called a VA help desk/contact center in the past?
- I don’t know if I ever have.
 
Have you ever used a chatbot or virtual agent online - why or why not? What were you doing on it?
- I sometimes have to use them a lot.  With the screenreader i depends on how the bot is written, a lot better than it used to be.  If i get sent away from that immediate area.  Takes a while when you try to get back in the conversaton 
If i was doing a chatbot, if i clicked on something with chat on the VA - it would be the only thing on the page - window, send button.  Everything else gets in the way with a screenreader.  We have to read line by line.
 
Were you aware that VA.gov had a coronavirus chatbot? If yes -- Did you use the Coronavirus chatbot on VA.gov - why or why not?
- no
 
Do you use Alexa, Google Home, Cortana, Siri, Bixby, Facebook portal or any other conversational tool?
- Echo for finding information.  I ask them a lot of questions - he understands me better than Siri does. 
Is Echo easier to find info vs. screenreader? No. using google on my computer is fastest.  If i just want to know a quick answer.  You can ask for a recipe, but cumbersome.  I could go faster than on echo.
 
# Product interaction

What to observe:
- “Is there a button i have to hit or am I there already? (note Chatbot wasn’t showing up for being in Reader View)”
- I’m just seeing sample questions and responses - is there supposed to be a text box? 
- ‘How easy or difficult to locate the text box using your screen reader? Because I knew where it was, my screen reader is 5 pages I just know to go to bottom rather than at top.  I’d like to try it (using menu).  What i just did was go to router and what screen reader says is Form Controls, which is set up correctly, that’s what i’d do - if i kenw it was a form, I’d use the form controls rather than just swipe around
- I usually dictate using my phone (which somehow crashed Zoom at the same time)
(Zoom announced Observer entered waiting room but not cursor?)
 
 
# Closing questions
 
Did the chatbot answer your questions accurately?
- No didn’t.  (Would try it again) I asked ‘How to log into va’ - didn’t get a response as far as I could tell.
How many more times would you type it before you gave up? ‘With me, I have a sharp patience with these bots.  You would have gotten 2 shots.  Normally it would have given me some kind of answer.  If you get on the wrong place on the screen, you have to go to the right place on the page.  I was scrolling up and down just to see an answer.  Also if there’s a timeout, there needs to be one for screenreaders for us to type or find something.  I’ve seen it before and it’ll time out, or say ‘are you still there’.
 
Based on your experience today, are you willing to use the chatbot again?   Are the problems you experienced things that would prevent you from using this chatbot?
- The database wasn’t functional so not quite fair.  I would go to the contact button.  
(What seems to matter is the ability to answer a question accurately as quikly as possible?) Yes.
This robotic chat is different from person to person.  The reason being, it will pull up info all over the VA and other sites.  I may want a product but may bring up a whole list of products.  Yes i has a relative word in it but nothing to do with what I’m looking at.
(Sophistication of the chatbot).  The echo is a whole lot smarter than it used to be.  The smarter they get, the more often they use it.  If it starts pulling on a lot of info based on keywords I won’t like it.  Will have to read through the list to find the answer I wanted. You could spend hours on these thing.
- If it’s a preference of a chatbot or speaking or typing a back and forth with a live agent, which would you use? (I kind of opt for faster).  I’m not as patient as some people.  Google tends to be really good at bringing up links.  I  have to switch the router to get headings on my phone - laptop is faster.  
Part of this has to be using the phone vs. using a computer.  (Preference is a desktop or laptop with a keyboard).  This is especially for this chatbot and getting input - so much prefer to use JAWS rather than Voice Over
If you could speak to the chatbot the same way as Echo, would it be easier to adopt as a chatbot? Yes.  I’m 65, in computers.  I’ve been to the blind rehab center twice.  I can take a computer class.  There are guys who don’t know how to type.  So using this chatbot for people who dont know how to type is an issue.  Typing wasn’t mandatory for people in my generation.
- “I would honestly like to say... the whole development team working on the va.gov web site - I find this whole thing absolutely wonderful because we actually get input in how it’s going to work rather than being forced to work within a page that was designed for sighted people. Even though we had problem here I understand it’s beta, plus Zoom plus the phone, plus other things you’re dealing with - none of that bothered me.  I just want to make sure you get the info to make it better for people who use VoiceOver’
