# Research study notes: Learning center MVP research 08/04/20, P7

## Intro - 3 minutes

Thanks for joining us today! My name is Liz Lantz and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes.  We have a team working on a new web product on VA.gov that will help you find answers to questions about VA benefits and services, and your VA.gov account.  Today, I'd like to hear about your experience getting questions answered, and go through a prototype of this new web product and get your thoughts on it.

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:

- **This entire session should take about 45 minutes.** I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
- **In this session, I want to hear your honest opinions.** I'm not testing your ability, and there are no right or wrong answers. Our team wants to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your honest feedback.
- **You'll be interacting with a prototype.** It may not function exactly the way you expect. Some areas of the prototype will be clickable, and some will not. None of your actions will affect your actual VA information or benefits.
- **If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.** 
- **I'd like to I record my screen and audio as we talk today, if that's alright with you.** We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly. Are you comfortable with me recording screen and audio for our session?

> 
  - If yes: **Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.** 

*Start recording.*

- **I've started recording**. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today?

> Yes, that’s fine. 

- Great, thank you

## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes

Before we look at the prototype, let’s start with a few warm-up questions.

- I understand you have benefits with the VA or an online account with the VA. Can you remember a time you had a question about your benefits or VA account?
> Yes, I had filed for unemployable status and kept getting the runaround telling me that I didn’t have enough percentage of benefits to file for it but by the way the law read, I guess you would call it, I did 

- Okay
> Finally, it took a young lady that knew how to phrase stuff to get it through

- Ah, okay, got it. Do you remember what the first step you took to get answers to your questions? 
> I went online and looked it up. 

- Did you have to take additional steps beyond that to get the answers you needed?
> Then I went to the local Veterans service office and the gentleman there gave me information and it happened to be, a lady that worked with him, was the one that was final able to answer my question and get the paperwork through for me.  

- Okay, okay. Got it. 

- What has your experience been like trying to answer those questions online?
> Can you say that again please? 

- What has your experience been like trying to answer those questions online?
> I guess, go and look to see if I can find the information online before I bother anybody. 

- Okay, do you go to VA.gov to do that or do you look elsewhere first? 
> VA.gov, [inaudible], Google search - to see if anybody else has looked for the information. Um, go to my state for their benefits, to see what their benefits say, because usually the state mirrors what the government does. 

- Okay, got it. Can you tell me about the last time you visited a VA website? 
> Last week for physical therapy for an appointment...But otherwise for looking something up, ummm, about three months ago I had to find a copy of my declaration because I was refinancing my house...

- Okay. Was that a typical experience for you on the website?
> Yes, it was. 

- Okay, thanks for sharing that. Just a couple more questions before we start getting into the prototype. 
  - If you saw a section of VA.gov called "Learning Center", what kinds of things would you expect to see there?
  > Weight loss! Ummm, receipts for low-calorie, low sugar, starch, that stuff, foods. Talking about benefits, talking about how to connect with other Veterans that have similar problems as you do. 
  - So, kind of a broad scope of information? 
> Yes
  
  - Okay, imagine you recently moved and you need to make sure VA has your new address.  How would you do that?
  > I would go on the website, te myhealthyvet website, change it there, send a written notice to the VA itself, and also call them. 
-Okay, wow, a lot of steps. 

## Task 1: General impression - 5 minutes

- Okay, thank you for explaining that to me.  Now I'm going to have you share your screen, and then I'll send you a link to a prototype so we can look at that together. 
  - *Use chat to send user link to prototype, starting on home page of learning center.* https://vsateams.invisionapp.com/share/YJXZTKC6CN4
  - *Talk user through screen sharing so they can share their screen.*
[Some  time spent opening link and sharing screen] 


- Take a look at this page, scroll around. Tell me what this page is for and what you think you can do here. It'll be really helpful if you can think out loud as much as possible moving forward. 

> It’s a little bit of everything. You can get your questions answered. Find out about your benefits. Manage accounts.  This has a little bit of everything on it. I like the “how to reset my password” because I’m a dumbbunny and forget mine quite often. 

- I do too. So many to keep track of these days. 

> Well, having passwords for all different things. 

- Right. 

> I got so mad one day because it kept [inaudible], so I made my password, “fuckoff” - I told you I have a potty mouth sometimes

- That’s totally fine. I’ve been there myself. I feel ya. 

- What do you think about the different ways you can find information on this page? 
> I like it. I wish I would have had this when the VA sent me back to college.

- Why is that? 
> Because you can check different things about your school or your classes. I didn’t ever fail a class but it says, “Retake class”  - That would have been nice to know. Knowing compensation, CNP, claim exam questions, that would have been helpful. Especially, since I wanted to reach across the desk and knock the woman out. On my PTSD one. Home loans. Man, there’s all kinds of stuff here. 

- Okay, and are there any other ways you can find information, other than the links you are reading here? 
> Yeah, below, it says, view all burial and memorial articles about getting your headstones and markers. Each one has a link on the bottom where you can find more articles, more information...

- Okay. Okay, great. 
> And toll-free numbers. All kinds of stuff. I’’m not sure about my call VA 311 because you’ve got too many phone numbers.
- Okay. 
> It says 1 8844…
- Yes, that is a typo in the prototype. You are the first person to notice that. We’ll have to fix that. Thank you for pointing that out. 
> That's The reason officers used to give me their stuff to read...because I would go over stuff and find misspellings and...or when their english wasn’t correct. 
- Yeah, people need that. It’s good to pay attention to detail. 

## Task 2:  Find article on a specific topic - 5 minutes 

- Going back to that question from earlier - imagine you recently moved and you need to make sure VA has your new address. Please show me what you would normally do and continue to think out loud as you do so.

> Probrally go into “Your a Veteran” or “Receive VA benefits” 
- Okay
> And then, if you don’t already have your VA.gov account, create it and get it going. Because I do not know if you have to have your VA.gov account set up before you go into Veteran or CVB benefits. 

- Right. Okay. That makes sense. 
> They all kind of run together. 

- Okay. Go ahead and see if you can find that information. Because this is a prototype, not not all linked up. What would you have expected  if you clicked on that? I saw you mouse over that “show more” - WHat would you think would happen? 
> Maybe personal information. Where you can get into your personal information. Cause it really doesn’t have a...up at the top...a place to go to “your information” - It lets you sign in but it doesn’t give you a place to go to “your information” 
- Okay, got it. You are one step ahead. I was going to have you do that. 
> There it is, Change your address, third one down. 
- Perfect. 


## Task 3: Review topic results - 3 minutes

*Participant will be looking at the `View all VA account and profile articles` result screen.*

- Before you click on that, I’d like you to take a look at this page and scroll around, and go ahead and talk me through what you see and how this line up with what you expected?

> I guess I should have read the top of it. Because the step-by-step and the FAQs, I was wondering why two of them was the same. 
- Okay.
> “Check the status of you claim” 
- What do you understand to be different about them? 
> One gives you information, one is where people have asked questions and they’re answered. 
- Okay. 

- And what do you think about how this information is organized? 
> Really, I would have put the “Creating a VA.gov account” the very first one. 
- And why is that? 
> Because if people don’t have a VA.gov account...I mean, you are telling them to sign in but you are not giving them a chance to sign in. You got the “VA.gov sign in FAQs” at the very top. Well, you didn’t give them a chance to sign in first. 

- Right. Okay, that makes sense. 

- Which of these articles help you figure out how to make sure VA had your new address?

> Change your address for your VA benefit - The about - Then step-by-step

- Okay, and which would you select? 
> “Change your address for your VA benefits” about
- And why is that? 
> It says, depending on type of benefits 
- Okay, you can go ahead and…
> [Inaudible] For some services you have to directly contact the specific benefit program. 

  *Prototype has three clickable results: `Change your address on file w/ the VA`, `Sign in FAQs`or `How to change your address online`*

- Great, go ahead and click and see if you can find the info you're looking for.
> Well, the Step by Step says, when you change your address - How to change your address. And see you have sign into VA.gov to be able to it. So, again, that should be at the top of the list, how to sign into VA.gov...or give you the chance to sign in. And yes, I am German, I talk with my hands. This tells you how to go in, that Step 5, to edit your address, phone number and that stuff. 


### Things to watch for

- Is the format of each search result helpful, or is a link farm more appropriate?
- Is the format of the topic articles results page sufficient and helpful to the participant?
- What were the participant's comments, if any, on the topic and audience tags for each result?
- Do the template labels help the user choose the most relevant article to their search?

## Task 4: Navigate between learning center articles - 5 minutes

*Participant should be on `Change your address on file w/ the VA`, `Sign in FAQs`or `How to change your address online` article*

- Does this page answer your question?

> Tells you how to do it after you go onto VA.gov. Because you select your personal profile. Yep, so that answers my question, how to do it.  

- What if you thought one of the other articles you saw in the list would be better information, how would you get to that information?

> Hit the back arrow 
- Okay, great. If you can go ahead and scroll down a little bit. Yes. Can you click on to find a specific program? Say you realized you that you had, for your education benefits, that you needed to do something different than this…
> So, I have to go back to the other page, the “Learning center” 
- I’m actually going to have you go there from this page, If you scroll down a little bit, yep, right there where it says other benefits, you need to contact the program first. Say you needed to do your education benefits. If you scroll up just a little bit...In that alert box...
> Oh, the “Sign in to change your address”? Or the “contact the specific program”? 
- Yep, exactly 
> That should be in capitals so it strands out. 
- Okay, you felt like you missed it? 
> Yeah, it didn’t stand out. 

- Okay, and you can go ahead and click on that. 

- And how would this meet your expectations? Going from one page to the next 
> If I could have found it real easy, it would  work great. 
- Okay, finding it is key. 
> Yeah, see, if it would be like down here what caught my eye is, “Or sign in to our online verification system called, WAVE” - That caught my eye because the “WAVE” was in capitalized letters 
- Got it. Okay. Yeah, it stands out because it’s different than all the text around it. 
> Or if it was, I won’t say cursey...I can’t think of the word for it...I can’t think of the word. Sorry, this is part of my PTSD
- That’s okay. 
> The letters are kind of bent…so the letters catch your eye...
- Almost like a script or ita...Oh, italicized, is that what you are thinking? 
> That’s the word I am looking for. Thank you. 
- It took me a minute to think of it too. Well, that is good feedback. 


## Task 5: Navigating between topics, and between Hub and Learning Center - 5 minutes

*Participant should still be on `Change your address on file w/ the VA`, `Sign in FAQs`or `How to change your address online` article*

- We're going to shift gears now. Imagine you need to find out how to get compensation for a Veteran who has been exposed to Agent Orange. How would you do that from this page?

> To get compensation for it? 
- MMhmmm. Exactly. 
> Life insurance, change your address…
- What are you thinking? 
> That I am a dumbbunny and can’t find it
- Oh, not at all. There is nothing you can do wrong here. This is on us to make sure it’s easy to find. So, not seeing it here. What would your next straps be? 
> Go back to the Learning Center
- Okay 
> “Disability” 
- Then you would look in there? 
> Yup
- And it’s not linked up so we don’t have that because it is a prototype. It’s helpful to know that that’s where it would make sense for you to find it and not on the other page so…

*Send participant link to Exposure to hazardous chemicals page in prototype*: https://vsateams.invisionapp.com/share/YJXZTKC6CN4#/screens/424624543

[Moderator taking through sharing screen with participant] 

- Now again, scroll around, and take a look at this page. Please continue to think out loud - you're doing a great job with that.

- How does this line up with what you expected to see? 

> Sorry, I read. 
- Oh, that’s okay. And you can read out loud...that’s fine.
> Okay, so if you were ready to prep for the chemical and biological testing, you have to go through the Army to get your treatment? Huh. Didn’t know that. 
- Seems that way
> Wow. Didn’t know that. Now if they would just do that with us, with all the  crazy shots they gave us for the Gulf War. 
> Wow. Didn’t know that. Now if they would just do that with us, with all the crazy shots they gave us for the Gulf War. 
- How does the page lineup with your expectations? 
> It would be nice if they had the contaminated drinking water at Ft. McClelland, Ala on here too. 
- Okay. 
> But I don’t know if it passed yet or not - I still think they are fighting that fight - Even though the post was closed down because the whole post was contaminated.
- Wow. So, you would expect to find more than you have listed here? 
> It may fall into one of these other, you know, with it being specific to Camp LeJeune. I know there are other bases, or posts, whichever you want to call it. That have come up - contaminated - and they started paying a disability for that  because of the contamination. 

- Okay. Go ahead and see if you can find the information you're looking for about how to get compensation for a Veteran who has been exposed to Agent Orange? 

> You go up here to “Agent Orange” 
- Okay, and go ahead and click on that

*This should take participant to LC Agent Orange article*

- And how does this line up with what you expected?

> If it was telling the truth, I wouldn’t  have a problem with it.  But Agent Orange just wasn’t used in the Vietnam War. It was used on military bases all over the world. 
- So, you don’t trust that’s it accurate? 
> Nope
- Okay
> I don’t feel like it is accurate - Because when I went to basic in 1980 we were still spraying the stuff when we were taking of the lawn around our barracks - in Ft. McClelland, AL. That’s how I know about Ft. McClelland
- Right. Right 
> Because I have been contacted that I need to file for it 


- Based on this information that you see here, what would you do next?

> What are you wanting in Agent Orange to do? To file a claim? 
- To see how you would get compensation, if you had been exposed to it
> You learn how to file a claim, then you file a claim
- Okay, go ahead and do that 
> Or cheat, and go to your local VSO and get them to fill it out for you. 
- I don’t think that is cheating necessity. 
> The wording on the application is kind of confusing. Especially if you have short term memory loss, or brain damage because it seems like it runs you around in circles. 
- Okay 
> Okay, Find out if you are eligible - Number 1 - yeah, gather information, make sure a claim is filled out completely...What are they doing this for? Are they trying to get people more where they file their claims online? 
- I think they want people to do what’s best for them. Provide different options. 
> Speak of the devil - there’s your “file a claim online” 

- How does this page line up with what you expected to see -  going from previous page? 
> What I figured - I figured it was…(laughter). I am sorry. That was not nice of me. The How long does it take for the VA to make a decision, 105.9 days - Horse hockey! Mine took 3.5 years…
- Oh, my gosh. 
> I started filing in 2005 and finally got something in 2007 - They they told me they did not receive my claim even though I had the receipts from the post office showing that someone has signed for it - and it ended up being 2010...it was ridiculous. 
- Hopefully, they have made improvements. I believe that number should be accurate. They figured out how to do that faster. I am sorry that took so long for you. 
> It’s not just me. People have been waiting 10-15 years and they keep having to fight the system. I ended up having to go on v video meeting with a judge in Washington DC to get mine.
- Oh. my gosh 
> That’s how long it took Well, there is a lot of information here that people can check your claim status and everything - it’s just, “Average number of days to complete disability claims in April 2020” 105 days - Nope! 
- Okay, I see we are getting close to the end of the session and there a few more things I wanted to ask you about. 
> Okay 

## Task 6: Review tag results -  3 minutes

-  Can you please go back to the Agent Orange page we were just looking at? 
  
> Okay

- From here, show me how would you find more articles that might be of interest to the same group of readers.

> General eligibility for something diseases, Service history…
- Okay, great. 

- And if you can go back towards the top. I am interested to see if you noticed. Under the heading here, did you notice the “topics” and “audience” 
> Yes
- And what do they...Can you tell me a little bit about them and how you understand them? 


