# Research study notes: Learning center MVP research 08/04/20, P9

# Conversation Guide 
## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes

Before we look at the prototype, let’s start with a few warm-up questions.

- I understand you have benefits with the VA or an online account with the VA. Can you remember a time you had a question about your benefits or VA account?

> Oh that's all the time.  All my brothers and sisters . We all have it, because we can never get anything accurate.  Anything we see online is usually 3-4 months behind.  Anytime we call, that 800 number is the most useless thing on this earth.  We're all sick of the tailored responses, they're just reading off a piece of planet.  If we call in, ebenefits- the most horrible thing on the face of this earth.  It was easier to use, easier to navigate, we had options of using MHV password or id.me password or whatever.  But now that it's sort of back to ebenefits, it's horrendous.

- Can you remember a specific question?

Where we are int he process, we can't get anything finite. You are in line, when you're trying to get something more viable. It's not accessible. We're giving nothing but blanket statements and generalities. So this is useless to us.  We can't get anything finite or any accurate answers. They're forcing all of us to conform to the government square. Hence why we become frustrated. They don't care about us. Those that deal with mental health issues, it's even worse for. I have PTSD and MST, so it's really difficult to reach out and get a specific answer to a specific wquestions. It's like monkies in a barrel. 

- What was that question about? 

>

- When you have a specific question, What was the first step you took to get that answered? 
> I think it's the 800 number... that's a free for all. If you want to spend a couple hours on hold... sometimes you can get a callback.  We usually don't recieve a call back. Hence we recieve no answers. It's obvious they don't care, they don't want ot talk to us. It makes our anxiety even worse because we can't get any answers to our questions. 

I'm really sorry, that sounds really frustrating.

It's been going on for 3 decades. Thanks for your thoughts, but it has nothing to do with you. 

Last time oyu visited the website what were you doing?

Checking the status of my appeal.  It was a general blanketed thing, you'r number hudnred and some odd, that's the way that it is. That was the last itme I visited the site. Um. After that, I got a letter saying my appeal was on the docket in DC. I know that much, that's about it. 

- Did you have to take additional steps beyond that to get the answers you needed?
>

- What has your experience been like trying to answer those questions on VA.gov?
> 

- Tell me about the last time you visited a VA website. What were you doing?
>

- Was that a typical experience for you?
> 

- Okay, thanks for sharing that. Just a couple more questions before we start getting into the prototype. 
  - If you saw a section of VA.gov called "Learning Center", what kinds of things would you expect to see there?
  > Hmm. Easy instructions that a lot of us could follow without... as far as navigating. Like one maybe two clicks to get us somehwere. Not going to 4 different screens to get to where we're going. That can really add to our frustration and anxiety. 
  
  -What kind of content do you think would be in there?
  > Easy access - pay history, fincance.  Real status real time of our appeals/claim status. Those owuld be the 2 big ones. There would be multiple things that people would need health aids, or easy ways to aid an attendance. My brothers and sisters that need help and care at home.  Clothing allowances for some of my bro and sisters. EAsy acceess to these things that we canapply for and check the status on. I don't need any of that, but plenty of my brothers and sisters do. 
  
  
  - Imagine you recently moved and you need to make sure VA has your new address.  How would you do that?
  >Well unfortunately, I have to go through ebenefits and then seperately to the hospital facility. And then mill access to change it in there. It's a pain in the butt. I have to go to 3 different areas in order to change my information. It would be nice if all of the VA facilities were on the same system, however they are not. It's a concern. Let me give you a prime example.  The va was courteous enough to send all my paperwork to the wrong attorney. Up in highland park illinois, my attorny is in minneapolis. Okay, so my personal information is out there floating  somewhere, so that is a huge mistake. There we go.  Just, theere you go. 
  
  

### Things to watch for

- What has happened in the past when they've tried to answer questions on our website?  
- Might they have familiarity with the benefit hubs already?
- Do they default to google? Or site search?  Calling someone?  
- What do veterans think is in a “learning center”?

## Task 1: General impression - 5 minutes

- Okay, thank you for explaining that to me.  Now I'm going to have you share your screen, and then I'll send you a link to a prototype so we can look at that together. 
  - *Use chat to send user link to prototype, starting on home page of learning center.* https://vsateams.invisionapp.com/share/YJXZTKC6CN4
  - *Talk user through screen sharing so they can share their screen.*
- Take a look at this page, scroll around. Tell me what this page is for and what you think you can do here. It'll be really helpful if you can think out loud as much as possible moving forward. 

> I like the fact that Is ee women veterans here, I've never seen anything  like that. Fiduciaries is a huge thing.  I like the caregiviers/ familiy, that's good.  Elaborate on transitioning service members.

- I believe it's service members who are leaving the service.

> Alright that works, okay that looks good. The career/employment councelors.  Real estate professionals, that's fabulous. Um, check the status... okay.... I like that.... We can't access the code for 2FA, trying to find the answer to that is not fun. It's really frustrating. I wish it owuld elaborate more about the veterans legacy program. I don't know what that is. 

- What do you think about the different ways you can find information on this page? 
> General things, is the check status real time or is that the 3-4 months lag time? Like on ebenefits. Okay, so I see where there's a cross reference here, which is nice as far as the education it's talking education and training.  This isn't half bad actually. Not half bad at all. Getting veterans that deal with short term like I do. You need something that drives us toward the learning center, because I wouldn't automatically go there to find these answers. We're thinking learning center is what kind of balogna is this. 

-If this product existed today, where would you go to look for it?
> Veteran assistance. Something to drive us to this center. I'd be looking at that and going "whatever" and not bother. That's just me. 



*If participant hasn't commented on these items on their own, ask:*

- Do you think name `Learning Center` makes sense for what you expected? 
>

- What did you notice about the search?
>

- How do you think this is different from the site search in the navigation?
>


### Things to watch for

- What was the participants initial response to the page?
>

- What did they say about the name "Learning center"?
>

- What did they say about the difference between site search and this page?
>


## Task 2:  Find article on a specific topic - 5 minutes 

- Going back to that scenario from earlier - imagine you recently moved and you need to make sure VA has your new address. Please show me what you would normally do and continue to think out loud as you do so.

> I guess I'd need to look at all of these... it says change oyur address for ebenefits. How to change your


So if both were under one, it would definitely be far easier and it would reduce the frustration and anxiety greatly. 

We certainly don't 

With veterans with TBI, it's like training a dog. You need to use one to two commands. Otherwise we're going to say screw it. 

- Since this is a prototype, not everything will work as you might expect, but it'll be very helpful to hear and see how you'd interact with it if it were a live website.

- Take a look at this page, and tell me how you'd make sure VA has your new address. Think out loud. 

>

  *`View all VA account and profile articles` link is a clickable hotspot*

  *Allow participant to go through entire page before prompting them to click.*

*If participant hasn't commented on these items on their own, ask:*


- What are your impressions of how the page is organized? 

>


*If participant would only use search:*

- Is there another way besides search that you'd try to find this information?

>


*If participant doesn't find hotspot:* 

- Have you noticed any place you can click? No problem. For the purpose. Of this prototype - see the `View all VA Account and profile articles` link? Go ahead and click that.
>


### Things to watch for

- Did the participant notice the search bar?
- What were the participant's comments on the `Search` radio buttons above the search bar?
- Do users notice or get confused between the search link in the top nav (which opens to a search box) and the in-page search with the radio buttons?
- Participant reaction to audience and topic tags and content?
- Did the participant decide to look up information on the topic by searching or scanning the page links?

## Task 3: Review topic results - 3 minutes

*Participant will be looking at the `View all VA account and profile articles` result screen.*

- Ok great! Now again, scroll around, and go ahead and talk me through what you see on this page and what you can do here. 

- How does this line up with what you expected?

> For the most part it's fine, But you have tw othings that say step-by-step back to back. If you click ont hat once, then we're given two options after we click on that one it's not going to be as horrifying. 

- Would any of these articles help you figure out how to make sure VA had your new address? (Go ahead and click on an article)

>


  *Prototype has three clickable results: `Change your address on file w/ the VA`, `Sign in FAQs`or `How to change your address online`*

- What helped you determine that article was the right one for you?

> Well I went with the Change your address for my VA benefits. This a bust here right off the back. I can click into this, I can sign in to change my address. If you really think I can remember my password - you're crazy. That's a bust. If I'm looking at all of this, why do I need to sign in again to accomplish my mission. I should be able to navigate to whatever I need, instead of having to sign in for the second time.

Okay. So... da da da da da... Rehab. Now that's a freakin nightmare to deal with and those folks.  Why does it seem like there's an oxymoron going on here... then everything is telling us to sign in again, even after we've already signed in. And it makes no sense to me. And again, it says sign in to change your address. Okay, really? 

- Okay if you imagine, you are not signed in... would the page answer your question?

> If I was looking for anything like this, maybe. It appears that it's continually trying to re-direct me... this is ridiculous... I'm done already.


- Great, go ahead and click and see if you can find the info you're looking for. Can you click on that link? How does this line up with your expectations?

> Have you ever heard the phrase, too wordy? Here's my suggestion to that... streamline. To the absolute most basics. I'm not trying to say you're insulting my intelligence, because the VA has been insulting my intelligence for decades. But if you could do it so a 5th grader could easily get in an get out. I don't know... but for me... I don't want to be jacking around all day. We don't like hanging out at the VA, it's horrifying. Right the Tuscon VA is like a prison and they treat us like inmates.

### Things to watch for

- Is the format of each search result helpful, or is a link farm more appropriate?
- Is the format of the topic articles results page sufficient and helpful to the participant?
- What were the participant's comments, if any, on the topic and audience tags for each result?
- Do the template labels help the user choose the most relevant article to their search?

## Task 4: Navigate between learning center articles - 5 minutes

*Participant should be on `Change your address on file w/ the VA`, `Sign in FAQs`or `How to change your address online` article*

- Go ahead and talk me through what you see on this page and what you can do here.

>


- Does this page answer your question?

>


- What if you thought one of the other articles you saw in the list would be better information, how would you get to that information?

>


- Okay, and based on this article, show me what you would do next.

>


  *Encourage participant to click on hotspot if they have not done so already*. 

  - *On How to change address online page, hotspot is in alert, and to related info section at bottom of page*

  - *On Change address on file page, hotspot is in body text*

  - *Sign in FAQs page, hotspot is in to related info section at bottom of page*

    

*Once on new page:*

- How does this line up with what you expected?

>

- Excellent, you're being really helpful. Thank you. Just a few more things to go over.

### Things to watch for

- Did the participant get confused navigating between articles?
- How did the experience align with participant's expectations?


## Task 5: Navigating between topics, and between Hub and Learning Center - 5 minutes

*Participant should still be on `Change your address on file w/ the VA`, `Sign in FAQs`or `How to change your address online` article*

- We're going to shift gears now. Imagine you need to find out how to get compensation for a Veteran who has been exposed to Agent Orange. How would you do that from here?

> The easiest thing would click on va.gov, search for agent orange and leave it at that.

Can you specify where you would search?

Wehre is says search va.gov. I'd click there.

Why would you change it from learning center?

I wouldn't think to do that off the bat.

-working through technical issues-

Oh, Liz - something else that would be helpful... would be service animals. It would be really helpful to have some information about that. I've got a written scrip from my psychologist at the VA to get one, and there's nothing about that at all. 


  *May need to remind user that things might not work as expected since this is a prototype*

- Thanks for sharing that. Since this is a prototype, we don't have all of that set up, so I'm going to send you a link you directly to a page. 

*Send participant link to Exposure to hazardous chemicals page in prototype*: https://vsateams.invisionapp.com/share/YJXZTKC6CN4#/screens/424624543

- Now again, scroll around, and take a look at this page. Please continue to think out loud - you're doing a great job with that.
> It's not giving me any direction about where I need to go.  There's a thing call ground water navy, and river rats. So navy people got exposed to agent orange as well. So not just the army, but the marine core as well got exposed. So all the branches, not just the army got exposed. That just gives you basic information about what is considered by the Va... 

Where would you go from there?

Yeah, where would I go, it gives me nothing, no direction. 

Okay, I'm just going to take you to the next page and click on this article. 

Are those viable links? What are you tryin gto get across? So... alledgedly we can file for disability, so as I scroll down I'm going to be looking for a link that I need to file. How did you keep it all together? Why can't you just put everything under agent orange under agent orange.  This needs to be streamlined, I"m already irritated with it. It makes no sense to me.

So, you don't like that they're broken out.

Yeah, like I told you about the dog - it needs to be 1-2 words. You take us there, but what you had described on the previous page about agent orange, it's almost like a red herring. You expect to go to one page to have all the information at our fingertips, then we find out that we need to find another page. Am I making any sense?

Oh yeah, you're like three clicks in and still dont have the information.

Yeah, I'm done. 



- How does this line up with what you expected to see? 

>

- Okay, that's good to know. Go ahead and see if you can find the information you're looking for anywhere.

>


*This should take participant to LC Agent Orange article*

- Now, how does this line up with what you expected?

>

- Based on this information, what would you do next?

>

- *If participant doesn't want to click Learn How to File a claim button:*
  - Okay, now imagine you wanted to take it a step further and see how you would go about getting that compensation. What would you do?
  
  >
  

*After participant clicks Learn How to File Claim*

- And, once again, how does this page line up with what you expected to find? 

>

### Things to watch for

- How does user expect to be able to get to unrelated topic information?
- Did the participant navigate easily between the benefit hub and learning center?
- Did the participant get confused at any point going back and forth?
- What changes did the participant notice between LC and hub?


## Task 6: Review tag results -  3 minutes

- Great, thank you! We're almost done.  One more thing I'd like to get your feedback on. 

  *If participant is not already on LC page:*

  Can you please go back to the Agent Orange page we were just looking at? 
  
  >
  

- From here, show me how would you find more articles that might be of interest to the same group of readers.

>


  *If participant doesn't click on audience tag*. 

  - Did you notice the audience and topic labels?
  
  > 
  
  - What would you expect to happen if you clicked on one?
  
  >
  
  - Did you think they were clickable?
  
  > I thought they were clickable. If they could highlight or whatever, make it visually sure it is a link. Just a suggestion. 
  
  
  - Go ahead and click on the audience label.

*User lands on Learning center articles tagged: Vietnam War Veterans page.*

- Great! Take a look at this page. How does it align with what you'd expect? 

>

- What do you think about how this information is presented?
>

- *If participant doesn't comment on tags:*
  - Are there any aspects to the page that you think are interactive?
  
  >
  
  
  - What would you expect if you click on one of the audience or topic tags?
  
  >
  
  
  - Did you notice any articles that sound like they could be the same?
  >
  
  - What differences do you notice between them?

### Things to watch for

- Did the participant realize the topic and audience tags were clickable?
- If not, why not?
- What did they think the tags would do?
- Are the tag results useful?
- Is the format helpful to the participant?

## Post-Task Interview - 8 minutes

Excellent, this has all been so helpful. Just a few more questions for you before we wrap up.  

- From this screen, talk me through how you would apply for a benefit you don't already have - education, home loan, something like that.

> I'd go down to where it says file a claim. To be honest I'd back out and go to the other page that says file a claim, but that's a pain in the neck.  Maybe just search for 'file a claim'


- Got it, thanks. That's helpful. From what you've seen today, can you describe how the learning center is different from overall site search?
>

  - If they didn't address the radio buttons above the search bar, get their perspective on that.
  >
  
- We don't know what to call the product you reviewed yet. Now that you have a better idea of the type of information that's here, what you think of the name `Learning Center`?

> It needs a change, something that drives the veterans there. With Learning Center, I wouldn't even bother. 

- Say you went to VA.gov today and knew we had launched this product. How would you find it on the website?

>

- Overall, what, if anything, do you find valuable or not helpful about this learning center concept as a whole?

> As long as it's streamlined, it would be really nice. Because again, we don't like to have to go through multiple pages. The way we percieve it, is that it appears that the Va is trying to cause us to say screw it so that we won't get to our benefits. The more frustrating it is, the more likely we are to just say screw and not mess with their fantasy island kind of thing. 

- What do you think could be improved about what we've reviewed today?

> Just using wording that we will readily undersatnd. One to two clicks, add service dogs get the VA to get of their shorts and help us with that. Streamlining. Something a 5th grader or a 6th grader maybe could do. Streamline, simplify. We're not idiots, but we just frustrate so easily. We don't need to waste the limited reasonable even-keel mental health that we have. That's just me. I've practiced in the medical industry for 4 decades, so I can talk from both sides of the fence.

- Any questions for me? 

>

## Thank-You and Closing - 1 minute

Well, we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans.

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!


