**Notetaker**: Emily W.

## Notes
9.4.18 — 2:00 PM

### Tell me about yourself

- I’m an army veteran
- Served 2 years active and 6 years reserve
- I was in Food Service
- Was in Germany for 1.5 years for that time that I served
- When I came home, I entered a reserve program until I got out in ‘98.

### Do you have a Vets.gov account?

Yes I’ve used healthy e-vet and the other one that lets you sign in and it says “DS OL” or something on it, and they are both connected for some reason. Over the last month or two they have connected those two so there is a single sign on which I really don’t like.

[Samara confirms that it’s Vets.gov she’s used]

### How often have you used it?

Probably a total of 6 times since I actually logged onto it.

[Samara shares keyboard and mouse controls]
[She isn’t able to share because participant is on her phone]
[Participant takes a few moments to set up GoToMeeting on her desktop]

## First Task: Find VA Benefits Page.

### Now you are on your homepage. I'd like to draw your attention to the Find VA Benefits section at the top of this page:

You should be able to look at the benefits that you have and if you want to sign up for something I think you can sign up as well online.

### What do you think will happen when you click "Select benefits you'd like to learn about"?

It should take me to a different page and it shouldhave my information there. 

### What information?

My name, maybe my phone number or address some type of demographic like that, it should also have additional links to look at what I have.

### If you were to see this in real life, under what circumstances would you be interested in clicking "Select benefits you'd like to learn about" and using the Find VA Benefits tool?

Just to make sure that I actually am enrolled and if I’m not, to get myself enrolled. It should tell me something about what benefits are out there and what’s available.

## Find VA Benefits Questions

### First, take a look at this page and tell me what you see here.

[Scrolls]
This is showing me [counts] 3, 6, 9, 10 benefits are out there that I should be eligibile for. 

### What do you think the purpose of this page is?

I hope that it would take me to another page that would show me more about the specific benefit.

### Up top you see the instructions [reads page heading] What do you think it means and how do you think we would help you "get started"?

I would think I would click on that save preference, I would hope it takes me to another page then I’m able to … Say I said I wanted healthcare and disability, hopefully those two pages would come up and I could go one by one and I could fill out and answer those questions.

### How would you select benefits youre inerested in?

Click in the little white box?

### If you could select health care, disability, education and training

[Clicks the checkbox in each of those]

### Take a scan through the options on this page. Do you think these are currently relevant to you personally?

Yes.

### Why?

Because they would tell me a little about everything, what life insurance, if there is anything that I qualify for, my burials and memorials… honestly I think that should be moved somewhere else because 9 times out of 10... Then my family wouldn’t be able to have access to that. I think that’s in the wrong place. But these other things are in a good place and I don’t have a problem with those. 

### You said you think burials and memorials are in the wrong place?

Once I’m passed away if they don’t have my password or username, they won’t know anything about the website or how to log into it.

### Are these options relevant to you in the past?

Yes. 

### Can you tell me more about that?

Currently I have a disability claim that has been processed so that is very relevant, the appeals part is also relevant. The pension part if I had stayed in the military long enough would be as well. Everything else is, but Burials and Memorials is not.

### Is there antyhing you would expect to see but don’t?

No.

### What do you think would happen if you click save preferences?

It should save and take me to another web page.

### What do you think you would see?

Something like maybe my name, some type of demographic, it would ask me questions to see if I qualify for health care.

### What do you think would happen if you click cancel?

The checkboxes should go away. They should all go away and be white or gray.

### Do you think you owuld stay or leave this page?

I hope I would stay on this page.

### How could it be improved?

I like the way it’s set up, and I would think each category would have additional info once you go into it, whether its about healthcare or disability claims but it should go to a different page and giv ea synopsis about what each one is.

### What worked well

I like how you can simply click into it and choose from 10 different categories.


### OK, now please click Save Preferences. Take a look at the Find VA Benefits section. Is this what you expected to see after clicking Save Preferences?

I expected to see something different. I mean… I do see a little information. Oh I see what I’m looking for. I like it, I actually like it.

### How does this differ from what you expected to see?

So I thought that it would maybe give me a little more, I said a brief synopsis but this is really brief.

### What did you expect that would’ve been different or better?

A little more meat about VA benefits. Here in this one it gives you a little about VA Health care but it’s a little too simple and sweet especially if it’s someone not familiar with benefits.

So when a person leaves the military they do know they have benefits but for myself, I thought the only way I could receive a benefit is if I was injured, maybe missing a limb or soemthing. I was not clear if I could receive some type of healthcare. Maybe some type of disclousre at the top that shows you are eligible.

### See if you are eligible - would that link help?

Okay so 1. For Veterans, they are going to do the same thing I did. They are going to skim across the page and see if there is something to click into. I think if that was bold or moved up so your attention would be brought to that.

### You can see that we've opened the top block — Healthcare — but Disability Compensation and Education and Training are closed right now. Why do you think that is? Would you prefer to see a different presentation — like all blocks open or closed — when you come to your homepage?

All blocks open because I know you have to click the little star or whatever at the end, I know you have to click that but most Veterans are going to be like what is this, what do I do. Especially if they are an older Veteran, if they are not receiving any help it might be more difficult for them.

### Take a look at the Healthcare block: Is this content helpful or unhelpful in guiding you on how to apply? Why or why not?

[Reads for a second.]
So you want me to click into one of these 3 here?
[Samara clarifies task]

I think it would be helpful because if these links were active, they would take you to another webpage and give you the info that I was looking for.

### Is there anything you were expecting to see?

No I think it looks good but I think if you could move it towards the top if you could move those a little higher and let us see the links first and then read the information that way when I first come to the page I can click onto that. Someone like me, I am looking for something to click into that I know would lead me to more information.

### Are you saying that about all the links or just the eligibility?

Just these links inside the VA benefits healthcare block. All three links.

### How would you open the Disability Compensation content?  

[Clicks the plus sign and opens it]

### Is this content helpful or unhelpful in guiding you on how to apply? Why or why not?

Yes, I like the way… [reads] I like that very first one, that says “See if you are eligible” that is the majority of what Vets are looking for, that’s what they want to know about.

### Would the other content be helpful?

Oh gosh yes. This is something that most Veterans would use.

### Is there anything you would expect to see that you’re not seeing?

No, it looks good.

### Now please open Education and Training for me. Is this content helpful or unhelpful in guiding you on how to apply? Why or why not?

It looks good, yes it’s useful. Just the way it is looks good. 

### Is there anything missing from this section?

No.

### How would you remove Education and Training from the homepage?

Can I go ahead and do it? [Clicks the close button]

### What if you wanted to remove it entirely?

[Scrolls]

Hmm let’s see. Huh. Now that… I don’t think I know. I would probably have to go back… I wonder if it would let me… Hmm. 

[Scrolls] I don’t know.

### Why don't you go to the top, there’s a change benefits you’re interested in link. What do you think that does?

It will take me to the previous page and let me change if need be.

### Go ahead and do that.

[Clicks the link]

### How would you add Education and Training back to your homepage?

Same thing, change benefits you're interested in.

### In real life, what might cause you to add or remove a block from the Find VA Benefits section of your homepage?

The only thing that I would do with this would be to just move those 3 links that are underlined, move those a little higher. That is the majority of what Veterans are looking for. The first thing I’m looking for are the links.

[Samara clarifies the question]

The only thing I would remove is the Burials and Memorials. Everything else would be of interest to me. 

### What would cause you to add something?

If I’m only searching for life inusrance or careers and employment, I would add them but otherwise I wouldn't click on those boxes if I didn’t intend to use them.

### Now let's assume you clicked "Apply?" What do you think would happen next?

I would think… Shouldn’t some of that information carry over and once it does… I hope, then all you have to do is double-check just to make sure the address is correct or whatever, make sure it’s really correct, maybe a few checkboxes, put in your children's names and their socials and stuff like that. Then it should take you to a different page after you’ve completed that information.

### Say you are applying for healthcare. Do you think it would change or stay the same?

I think it would change or say something probably like, "Your application is being processed." I think it would change so a person would notice a difference than you just looking at this one box.

### How can this page be improved? What about this page worked well?

I like that for me, I have a little familiarity with it, you just simply click and it just takes you to a new page. I don’t think it should be changed. It’s simple, it’s easy and unlike other websites youv’e been on where you feel like you’er lost. I don’t feel lost.

### Now I want to ask you some questions about the overall experience we just went through today. Do you think this is a helpful or unhelpful approach to help people get started learning about or applying for VA benefits? Why?

As long as it allows me to enter the information and continue the flow from one screen to the next, then absolutely yes.

### Do you think this tool would have been helpful or not to you in the past when you were trying to learn about and apply for benefits?

Oh god yes. Like I said when I first got out of the military I got the impression that if you were missing a limb or overseas in Iran or Iraq, you were automatically eligible. So I went for years without VA healthcare because I had a job and my insurance was under another employer. When life changed and I was under Medicaid, I was talking to another Veteran and they said, "Why don’t you apply for benefits?" And I said, "Am I eligible?" And they said, "Of course!" 

I didn’t know and I went to the VA and stood in line maybe for 45 minutes to an hour for a lady to come out and assist me with health care.

### In what ways can we better surface benefits so they are easier for veterans and service members to find and understand? This could be on this website or offline.

I think that if there was more um… I don’t know maybe service providers maybe or someone that lets Veterans know the process and where you can find information, not all Veterans are computer savvy and don’t have someone to help them. If they don’t have that they are kind of lost. If there was a service officer, or at the time they are applying for VA health care, there's someone to say, "There are these other options."

### In what ways can we better help people through the application process? This could be on this website or offline. 

So let's say that a servicemember, they are PCS-ing and leaving the military and becoming civilian or sometong like me who has been out for quite a few years, and recently got into the VA for health care, maybe in that initial appointment they could say, "Hey these are your benefits." If someone did that, some type of VA counselor or service officer at that initial time that they go for their first appointment, "Did you receive a handbook?" I think we get that but I don’t know if they come out every year or 2 years. "Here is the last handbook." If someone gave us the handbook, kept us up to date on those things, that would be awesome. I don’t know if that would be something my primary care doctor could do or after you see your doctor, someone could say, "These are your benefits. Have you applied for any of these?"

### Would you recommend or not recommend the experience we just looked at to a fellow veteran to help them apply for or explore a benefit they are interested in?

Absolutely I would. It seems like all the information is here and they just have to click into it. So maybe a spouse or caregiver or community member or wheover could help. It’s broken down quite easily.

### Wrap up
