**Notetaker**: Emily W

## Notes
9.5.18 — 10:00 AM

## Warm-up Questions (2 minutes)

### Before we start, can you tell me a little bit about yourself? 

I am a retired Marine Colonel, I spent 32 years in the Marine Corps, all my time in operations. My last duty station was Deputy Director of Ops at [redacted]. I commanded 9 units the surveillance ops in Okinawa, a command task force in Somalia, the withdrawal of the Pakistani peacekeepers and UN peacekeepers.

### Do you have a Vets.gov account? 

I'm sorry, a what?

### [Shows website, clarifies question]

No I haven't seen it before.

### [Shares keyboard and mouse control]

I may have a VA account at Vets.gov that my wife signed me up for because she handles all this stuff. She signs me up for these things.

### Participants who do not have a Vets.gov account (~2 minutes)

### Ok, we're going to imagine you are signing in to Vets.gov for the first time. You can click Sign In for me.

[Clicks the sign in button]

I thought I clicked it... 

[Clicks again]

Since you can sign in to Vets.gov with an existing account, let's pretend you are going to sign in through DS Logon. Go ahead and click Sign in with DS Logon. 

[Clicks DS Logon button]

The screens on my computer just keep getting smaller and smaller... I can't even see it. Where do I click?

[Samara provides directions]

Since this is a prototype and not your actual account, we've put in a mock email address here, and you'll see mock data in the prototype that is different from the data in your real account. Do you have any questions about that?

### Find VA Benefits Questions

First, take a look at this page and tell me what you see here.
 
### Why do you think you were taken here after you signed in?

Uh... Actually. If I was signing up for the first time, this is exactly what I would expect to see. 

### Why? 

Because it gives me all the options of my benefits.

### Take your time to look through this page, and then tell me — what do you think the purpose of this page is?

I think the purpose is to list the benefits and easiy recognizable format and allow me to select the oens that I want.
It's actually a pretty good page, I'm impressed.

### The directions say "Tell us which benefits you're interested in, so we can help you apply. Select one or more of the types of benefits below, and we'll help you get started." What do you think this means? How do you think we'll help you "get started"?

Well it means once I click the box it's going to take me to that benefit and tell me what I need to do to start getting that benefit.

### Please select healthcare, disability and then education and training.

[Selects them by clicking the checkbox]

### I'd like you to take a scan through the options on this page. Do you feel like the options we've listed here cover circumstances that feel personally relevant to you currently? 

The only thing that is relevant is education, but... Yeah I think that they pretty much cover anything that I would expect from my VA benefits.
  
### Do these options cover circumstances that have been personally relevant/important to you in the past?
  
Yes.
 
### Is there anything that is important to you that you'd expect to see here but don't?

No.

### Without clicking anything, what do you think will happen when you click Save Preferences?

Will it be saved as a bookmark or on my hard drive or what? I'm not sure. If I was doing this I would click it and see what the heck would happen. I think it would probably save it to my login address so next time it would take me immediately to that preference.

### Without clicking anything, what do you think will happen if you click Cancel?

This would go away and take me back to the login page.

### How can this page be improved?

From what I know, it can't be improved much. It looks pretty comprehensive.

### What about this page worked well?

What I liked, it immediately came up "Find VA Benefits". I didn't have to go through a bunch of stuff to get to it. It just came up and said, "Here's what you want to know." The only thing I would say might be added is that you might want to put a statement in there that says, "If the benefit you're concerned about doesn't fall into one of these categories..." Maybe there is someplace you can say, "Contact us for further information" or "Where should I go to find out this information"

### OK, now please click Save Preferences.

[Clicks Save Preferences button]

## Second Task: Dashboard (~8 minutes)

### Alright, now we are on your homepage. Take a look at the Find VA Benefits section. Is this what you expected to see after clicking Save Preferences?

[Scans, reads, scrolls]

Uh... Yeah. Actually that is pretty comprehensive. Although I gotta tell ya, if you are homeless or at risk of becoming homeles...[laughing] Kind of ridiculous. Most homeless don't have a computer to be doing this, but I guess they could be going to use a computer at the VA center or something.

### You can see that we've opened the top block — Healthcare — but Disability Compensation and Education and Training are closed right now. Why do you think that is? Would you prefer to see a different presentation — like all blocks open or closed — when you come to your homepage?  

You know what, that's a good question. Let me think about this. I think that the ones that I clicked... uh... I forget which ones they were, I think they should be displayed there so I wouldn't have to do anymore clicking except look at the home page and click the one I wanted to find.

### Take a look at the Healthcare block: Is this content helpful or unhelpful in guiding you on how to apply? Why or why not?

Yes, I think it's pretty much right on.

### Is there anyting you expected to see that you don't see?

No, I don't think there is anything missing that I would expect to see.

### How would you open the Disability Compensation content? How would you close it? Is this content helpful or unhelpful in guiding you on how to apply? Why or why not?

[Scrolls up and down]

Okay where the heck is that at... Oh! There it is. So small on my computer. [Reads] That looks pretty helpful.

### Is there anything missing that you would expect to see?

It sure looks like this would've been beneficial to have back when I applied. No, this looks good.

### Now please open Education and Training for me. Is this content helpful or unhelpful in guiding you on how to apply? Why or why not?

No, that looks pretty comprehensive too. That is exactly what I was thinking about doing here in the next few months.

### Anything you would expect to see that's missing?

No, it looks pretty good.

### How would you remove Education and Training from the homepage?

[Scrolls to the bottom of the page] I would go to manage your account, view your account settings.

### Scroll up to the top of the page

[Reads] 

### What do you think the "Change benefits you're interested in" link does?

I don't have that, I don't see it. All I have are [reads global nav]

### I'm talking about this link right here. [Moves the mouse to the link]

I can't see that... I'm going to have to enlarge that. Nope, that's not it... [Sings] Doo doo do... I'm sorry Samara, it looks like my computer is not showing the whole thing.

### [Makes screen larger]

I'm back to the home page now. 

### It says "Change benefits..."

Oh it's right there! I was looking way up here.

### What do you think it would do?

It would allow me to go back to my home page and add or delete what I'm interested in.

### Let's do that.

[Unchecks education button]

### If you clicked home without saving, what do you think it would do?

I think it would save preferences.

### How would you add Education and Training back to your homepage?

Change benefits you're interested in. Want me to do it?

### Sure.

[Clicks link]

### In real life, what might cause you to add a block from the Find VA Benefits section of your homepage?

Well if something came up that said to me that maybe there is a VA benefit that covers this issue, maybe I should go to the home page and see if I could find it. Or... becoming familiar with this home page would put it in my mind so I could say, Hmm. Maybe I'll go and see if I could go and get that benefit.

### What might cause you to remove a block from the Find VA Benefits section of your homepage?

Knowing me, probably nothing. Because... [laughing] I may want to go back to it or would never bother to delete it.

### Now let's assume you clicked "Apply?" What do you think would happen next? Do you think this block on the homepage would change or stay the same after you started an application?

I'm sorry where are we at? [Scrolling]

I think it would change and it would give me the application form to fill out.

### Tell me more about that.

If I clicked that, I would expect it would give me instructions on what to do to apply for health care, or simply give me the form to fill out to email to you or contact information, phone numbers I could call to find out how to apply for health care.

### [Clarifies question] If you came back to your home page after applying, do you think this would change or stay the same?

Well, I would hope that it would change and say something like... "View your application" or "Status of your application" or something like that.

### How can this page be improved?

I think we talked about that I think it's pretty good.

### What about this page worked well?

It's pretty comprehensive and flows. Once you select the benefit it flows down on what you should do. Yeah, it pretty much is there.

## Third Task: Wrap-up questions (~8 minutes)

### Now I want to ask you some questions about the overall experience we just went through today Do you think this is a helpful or unhelpful approach to help people get started learning about or applying for VA benefits? Why?

I think it's very helpful. If you had it up and running right now, I'd be using it. [Laughs]

### Why do you say that?

The biggest impediment to getting benefits is the paperwork hassle you have to go through to do anything.

### How does this help?

I would assume because the logarithms [algorithms?] you create could cut that down and you could get an answer pretty quickly if you are eligible for a benefit and if you are, how to go about getting the application for that benefit.

### Do you think this tool would have been helpful or not to you in the past when you were trying to learn about and apply for benefits?
  
It would have been extremely helpful. When I applied for my disability benefits it took almost 2 years of filling out paperwork, visiting the VA hospital, back and forth getting various doctor statements and stuff like that. It was incredibly frustrating I guess is the word.
  
### How do you think this would've helped?
  
I would presume that your responses would be at lightspeed or within 24 hours I would think at the most and you'd know where you stood and what you should do to continue the process or find out you weren't eligible for that benefit.
  
### In what ways can we better surface benefits so they are easier for veterans and service members to find and understand? This could be on this website or offline.

I think the VA does a pretty good job of producing that information. One thing I would be concerned about is that the calendars (?) [calipers? didn't quite hear what he said] need to be up to date on the tools that can help people.

### In what ways can we better help people through the application process? This could be on this website or offline.

I think this online process is pretty good but if you were offline... The issues with phone calls are you always get an answering machine. I don't know how the heck you would speed that up, that can become frustrating. If I had the answer to that I would be the director of the Veterans Affairs department. 

The younger generation of Vets are so computer savvy that the best way to do it is how you're doing it right here I think.

### Would you recommend or not recommend the experience we just looked at to a fellow veteran to help them apply for or explore a benefit they are interested in?

Oh if you had this up and running right now, and I get many questions about this, I would just forward the link to my friends.

### Wrap up

